---
title: "Strange Loop 2019 - Closing Keynote"
description: "London based recording artist Imogen Heap blurs the boundaries between pure art form and creative entrepreneurship. Writing and producing 4 solo albums, one as Frou Frou (with Guy Sigsworth), and collaborating with Jeff Beck, Mika and Josh Groban amongst others, Heap has penned tracks for movies, TV shows and produced the score for Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, winning the 'Outstanding Music in a Play' Drama Desk Award."
author: Blogy McBlogerson
authorUrl: https://heresblogy.com/
publishDate: 2019-09-14T00:00-16:30
tags: [
  strange-loop
]
slug: strange-loop-2019-closing-keynote
heroImage: /blog/strange-loop-thumbnail-square-v2.jpg
published: false
---

<div class="container p-0 liveblog-presenters">
  <div class="row m-0">
      <p class=" mr-12 m-0">
        <span class="liveblog-presenters__name">Imogen Heap</span>
        <a href="https://twitter.com/imogenheap" target="_blank" title="Twitter"><i class="fa fa-twitter pr-2"></i></a>
        <a href="http://www.imogenheap.com/" target="_blank" title="Speaker's site"><i class="fa fa-globe pr-2"></i></a>
      </p>
  </div>
</div>

---

## Overview

London based recording artist Imogen Heap blurs the boundaries between pure art
form and creative entrepreneurship. Writing and producing 4 solo albums, one as
Frou Frou (with Guy Sigsworth), and collaborating with Jeff Beck, Mika and Josh
Groban amongst others, Heap has penned tracks for movies, TV shows and produced
the score for Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, winning the 'Outstanding Music
in a Play' Drama Desk Award.

---

It's 5 minutes in and Imogen is finally being introduced. It's not a talk, it's
an "event". The final event. A "finalevent or "finale", if you will.

Props and shoutouts are being given to the organizers.

"It's not so easy making money from music these days."

Relating open source culture and music: the way in which you put effort into
something you love and want to share with others but also is a little hard to
make a living from.

I'm a musician by trade, but 10 years ago, my life changed.

I had tons of stuff onstage and there was tons of things 

Received an invitation from a friend who was a scientist at Goddard Space
Center, and then was similarly invited to the MIT Media Lab. There she met up
with TK [Ellie?], and she had gloves that could capture sounds and then turned
around and synthesized a sine wave from mit.

I thought oh my god! You can make music with gloves!

Heap asked about doing it but she was busy with an Opera. So Heap went to Tom
Mitchell in England, got a pair of gloves, and  a 10k pound grant. Then got a
neural network for posture recognition. 

Then she tried to make a song with the gloves. So they had to make the hardware
and software so they can make an entire song with their gloves. And not just a
capella, but drums, bass, tinkly bits, and all thta. She added a Kinect to the
process to introduce another playspace for musical expression on the stage.

() Reviewing the different virtual instruments and music gear all built
together on the screen.

Wanted to advance the technology to a place where she could perform without a
team of scientists and coders.

Really wants to perform a song "[mimu?] machine", but doesn't think she can
right at this moment.

Trying to turn this into a commercial venture, music gloves - when she spoke
with Edie, she went online to look for sings it doesn't 

Latisha Sonami has been doing this music gloves thing since the 80's -
definitely worth checking it out.

There's a live demo with the gloves. There's gestures with amusing animal names
- standing in a different place onstage causes different amount of delays. Some
gestures can add looping samples, the ability to layer sounds, fade them,
reverse them, etc. She can also use gestures to record/playback.

She's going to perform a song called Breath[ing?in?TK], from back when she
performed with the band Frou Frou 15 years ago. Some discussion of the
background. 

Some names and other musicians signed up to work with the gloves in their shows
- Ariana Grande. 

Chris is a young man playing guitar in a rock band, but has cerebral palsy
which makes it difficult for him to work. He went through the Drake Music
Foundation and wanted to have a glove duet.

You can program the gloves to recognize any postures - fist, one finger point,
two finger point, rocker horns, open palm. There's also the ability to
recognize broader arm gestures - up down, left right, swings vs. points.
Defining an orientation so that there's some physiciality

also there's feedback - vibration in the gloves in addition to lights on the
gloves - red for recording, green otherwise.

All of these are customizable: everything in Glover can be mapped

The performance is starting. She's starting the loop with some ambient vocals
and drumming the air drums to make a real drum loop. It's running a little out
of sync due to wifi interference lol.

She's giving the audience a cheeky chiding.

The performance is stellar, the audience is silent, many people are sitting
with phones out recording.

She's a one woman band.

A close observer can notice the careful use of her hand gestures, and see how
they map to the changes to the music.

She's pulling out notecards.... "I'm not so good at writing speeches, but it's
really nice to be in the moment, and we're so often not in the moment."

2 years ago, she hit a point of frustration - name drop of her child Scout. No
one told her it was going to be hard! She was not prepared for how hard raising
a child was. They bought diapers the day after.

She had bills to pay and had to keep working, so she enlisted the services of a
breast pump. It turns out that the breast pump had a really nice tempo, which
inspired her to make a song! Which she's going to perform for us!

A bit of a rant about making music for things - it's such a pain in the ass
chasing ads and working with publishers etc. Was excited about the way in which
blockchain could help change the way in which music could be distributed. She
set up a non-profit music and tech hub, mycelia TK link and is really proud of
what they've built.

Here's a song she wrote for Scout. She's performing "Tiny Human".

Mycelia is trying to be a place to to share things.

She wants to share more data than just what's available on the DSP to Spotify
iTunes etc: Inspiration, Studio Credits, Official Lyrics, Instrumentation.

She pitched the music industry to provide and restructure this information and
to make the friction between making music and distributing music less. However,
it was falling on deaf ears since their salaries were dependent on them not
understanding it.

So now Imogen goe sthrough attempts to go to conferences nad reach out more
grassroots.

She tried to champion ethical technical guidelines.  This also failed.

Mycelia shows how much roayalty are split etc. All of this through a nice
modenr-looking web interfac.e

It's reaching out to musicians directly now to try to change things. 

Correctly calls out that much of the innovation in the music market is focused
on the end consumer and making the experience more seamless for them, as
opposed t othe independent musician. Is eagerly excited for the blockchain, and
sees pay-to-play being the future.

The Happy Song is being performed - we're getting a sneak peek at the video.
It's a song that's designed to make babies happy - apparently a team of 30
scientists has helped make babies happy.

Trying to make the world a better place to navigate. "Two songs are uploaded
every second. Every second. We need a way to navigate that, helping AI or
trends like that to allow people to find the music they want."

Mycelia is unveiling a music passport first. It's going to be going into beta soon.

Partnership with Musicbrainz - but an invitation to musicians to verify
musicbrainz's data. This benefits both musicbrainz and also musicians who use
this.

She's trying to make a home, a healthy home for music to be made.

There are invidivdial privacy controls  on the data that's in your creative
passport. A goal is to give musicians control of their privacy.

We're getting one last song: "Hide and Seek". Her most famous song. This
version is going t obe a bit of a mashup of a popular couple of versions.

Audience: Pull up the control panel again.

She's got a flight to cathc, but we're going to get one last talk, after a
brief intermission to get over a cough she got from a sound person backstage,
Petra.

If you'd like to get involved, Mycelia could use some help - it is an open
source project. Not everyone might be able to get a chance to help, but
everyone is welcome to try to lend a hand.

She's actually performing Hide and Seek now.

She's getting a standing ovation.

<!-- Note on images
  Images (e.g. my_image.jpg) should be put in the `website/static/blog/strange-loop-2019` directory, with the path to the image in your post being `/blog/strange-loop-2019/my_image.jpg`. If you'd rather host the images somewhere else for ease of use, that's fine too.

  Please also try to keep your images to a reasonable size by:
    - Using JPEG compression, unless image is mostly solid color 
    - JPEG compression set between 60%-80%
    - Resizing the image to be no wider then 750px
    - If PNG, use a tool like ImageOptim (https://imageoptim.com/mac) to optimize the file size

  I suggest re-sizing and compressing all the images in one batch as a last step.
-->  
