content/blogposts/2023/opencodegraph.md, before:

---
title: "Hack with us on OpenCodeGraph, an experimental OSS project for code context"
authors:
  - name: Quinn Slack
    url: https://handbook.sourcegraph.com/team/#sts=Quinn%20Slack
publishDate: 2023-12-20T13:35-08:00
description: "See contextual info about code from your dev tools in your editor, in code review, and anywhere else you read code."
tags: [blog]
slug: 'opencodegraph'
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/opencodegraph-blog.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/opencodegraph-blog.png
---

In time for holiday hacking, we’re releasing an experiment we’re calling [OpenCodeGraph](https://opencodegraph.org/), a way to see contextual info about code from your dev tools in your editor, in code review, and anywhere else you read code.

For example, you can click from a GitHub PR to production metrics dashboards:
<img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/opencodegraph/screenshot-github-pr-prometheus-browser-v1.png" width="635" height="261" alt="Click on a metric in code to see the Prometheus dashboard" style={{marginTop:"10px"}} /> {/* From https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/58166/files */}

Or, in your editor, you can see what a React component looks like (according to your UI component library):

<img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/screencast-vscode-storybook-v0.gif" width="800" height="547" alt="See what a React component looks like, using OpenCodeGraph" style={{marginTop:"10px"}} />

Or you can make it so everyone who reviews a PR on GitHub sees contextual links to your internal docs (so they stop asking you the same questions and actually RTFM):

<img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/opencodegraph/screenshot-github-links-browser-v0.png" width="659" height="501" alt="See contextual links in a GitHub PR" style={{marginTop:"10px"}} />


It’s easy to add support for:

- more providers: any service that knows stuff about code: logging, o11y, static analysis, docs, infra, etc.
- more clients: today it supports [VS Code](https://opencodegraph.org/docs/clients/vscode), [GitHub](https://opencodegraph.org/docs/clients/github) (in code and PR views via a Chrome extension) and [Sourcegraph Code Search](https://opencodegraph.org/docs/clients/sourcegraph), and soon it’ll support [Cody](https://opencodegraph.org/docs/clients/cody)

<br/>

All this contextual info about code is obviously helpful for humans, but it will also help code AI tools such as [Cody](https://cody.dev) that will eventually consume this information ([sneak preview](https://opencodegraph.org/docs/clients/cody/)). After all, a code AI tool probably needs to see the docs, metrics, and logs (not just the code) to fix the damn bug, just like a human would.

Get started at [opencodegraph.org](https://opencodegraph.org), see the code in [sourcegraph/opencodegraph](https://github.com/sourcegraph/opencodegraph) (Apache 2.0), [follow @sqs](https://twitter.com/sqs) for updates, and join #opencodegraph in the [Sourcegraph Discord](https://about.sourcegraph.com/community) to chat. We’ll be hacking on it over the holidays, adding support for a lot more context providers and clients. (And if this OpenCodeGraph experiment goes as we hope, it’ll make Sourcegraph Code Search and Cody better in the future.)

Commit message:

OpenCtx update (May 2024): @-mentions and information from your dev tools, shown everywhere you read/write code (#6950)
* OpenCtx update (May 2024): @-mentions and information from your dev tools, shown everywhere you read/write code

---------

Co-authored-by: Tim Lucas <t@toolmantim.com>
Co-authored-by: Alex Isken <alex.isken@sourcegraph.com>

content/blogposts/2023/opencodegraph.md, after:

---
title: "Hack with us on OpenCodeGraph, an experimental OSS project for code context"
authors:
  - name: Quinn Slack
    url: https://handbook.sourcegraph.com/team/#sts=Quinn%20Slack
publishDate: 2023-12-20T13:35-08:00
description: "See contextual info about code from your dev tools in your editor, in code review, and anywhere else you read code."
tags: [blog]
slug: 'opencodegraph'
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/opencodegraph-blog.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/opencodegraph-blog.png
---

*NOTE: The OpenCtx project was originally called OpenCodeGraph. This blog post has been updated to use the new name (OpenCtx).*

In time for holiday hacking, we’re releasing an experiment we’re calling [OpenCtx](https://openctx.org/), a way to see contextual info about code from your dev tools in your editor, in code review, and anywhere else you read code.

For example, you can click from a GitHub PR to production metrics dashboards:
<img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/opencodegraph/screenshot-github-pr-prometheus-browser-v1.png" width="635" height="261" alt="Click on a metric in code to see the Prometheus dashboard" style={{marginTop:"10px"}} /> {/* From https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/58166/files */}

Or, in your editor, you can see what a React component looks like (according to your UI component library):

<img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/screencast-vscode-storybook-v0.gif" width="800" height="547" alt="See what a React component looks like, using OpenCtx" style={{marginTop:"10px"}} />

Or you can make it so everyone who reviews a PR on GitHub sees contextual links to your internal docs (so they stop asking you the same questions and actually RTFM):

<img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/opencodegraph/screenshot-github-links-browser-v0.png" width="659" height="501" alt="See contextual links in a GitHub PR" style={{marginTop:"10px"}} />


It’s easy to add support for:

- more providers: any service that knows stuff about code: logging, o11y, static analysis, docs, infra, etc.
- more clients: today it supports [VS Code](https://openctx.org/docs/clients/vscode), [GitHub](https://openctx.org/docs/clients/github) (in code and PR views via a Chrome extension) and [Sourcegraph Code Search](https://openctx.org/docs/clients/sourcegraph), and soon it’ll support [Cody](https://openctx.org/docs/clients/cody)

<br/>

All this contextual info about code is obviously helpful for humans, but it will also help code AI tools such as [Cody](https://cody.dev) that will eventually consume this information ([sneak preview](https://openctx.org/docs/clients/cody/)). After all, a code AI tool probably needs to see the docs, metrics, and logs (not just the code) to fix the damn bug, just like a human would.

Get started at [openctx.org](https://openctx.org), see the code in [sourcegraph/openctx](https://github.com/sourcegraph/openctx) (Apache 2.0), [follow @sqs](https://twitter.com/sqs) for updates, and discuss stuff in the [forum](https://community.sourcegraph.com/). We’ll be hacking on it over the holidays, adding support for a lot more context providers and clients. (And if this OpenCtx experiment goes as we hope, it’ll make Sourcegraph Code Search and Cody better in the future.)
