---
layout: markdown
title: Terms of Service for Self-hosted Sourcegraph Instances (Archived)
---

Last modified: June 24, 2021

Thank you for using Sourcegraph! This page lays out the basic terms and conditions that apply to your use of software, products, and services we make available at Sourcegraph.com.

<div className="mt-4 mb-4 p-3" style={{background: '#f2f4f8'}}>
<span className="text-blurple-400">

## Is this the right Terms of Service for me?

</span>

Are you interested in terms for...

- **A self-hosted Sourcegraph instance**: You're in the right place! Read on.

- **[Sourcegraph.com](/terms/cloud)**: If you’d like to use Sourcegraph.com (the public Sourcegraph instance that can be used to search, navigate, and analyze public code) rather than a self-hosted instance, or if you’d like to use any products (e.g. browser or editor extensions) developed and distributed by us for use with sourcegraph.com, please see our Sourcegraph.com terms and conditions at https://about.sourcegraph.com/terms-dotcom.

- **[Sourcegraph OSS](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/main/LICENSE.apache)**: It is possible to run a version of Sourcegraph without some Enterprise features from our open source code available at https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph. If you want to follow the instructions there to build and run Sourcegraph OSS from source, please see the open source license (Apache 2.0) at https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/main/LICENSE.apache.

- **Sourcegraph extensions**: If you’d like to use any extensions made available via our [Extension Registry](https://sourcegraph.com/extensions), please understand that extensions made available by third-parties are not provided by us and are generally governed by separate terms and conditions. Extensions that are developed and distributed by us are governed by these terms and conditions.

- **[Government](/terms/gov)**: Certain features of our software may have their own terms and conditions that you must agree to when you sign up for that particular feature. As an example, if you’re using our software as an employee or contractor of the U.S. Government, our Supplemental Terms for U.S. Government Users at https://about.sourcegraph.com/terms-gov apply. Those terms and conditions supplement these terms and conditions.
</div>

PLEASE READ THESE TERMS CAREFULLY TO ENSURE YOUR UNDERSTANDING OF EACH PROVISION. THE AGREEMENT CONTAINS A MANDATORY INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATION AND CLASS ACTION/JURY TRIAL WAIVER PROVISION THAT REQUIRES THE USE OF ARBITRATION ON AN INDIVIDUAL BASIS TO RESOLVE DISPUTES, RATHER THAN JURY TRIALS OR CLASS ACTIONS.

<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 0. Table of contents

</span>

<TableWrapper>
| Section                                                                                                                               | Description                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. [Definitions](#1-definitions)                                                                                                      | Definitions of specific terms used on this page                                             |
| 2. [Account terms](#2-account-terms)                                                                                                  | Your responsibilities to use Sourcegraph                                                    |
| 3. [Acceptable use](#3-acceptable-use)                                                                                                | Acceptable use of Sourcegraph                                                               |
| 4. [Usage data](#4-usage-data)                                                                                                        | Aggregate and high-level data we collect from private and self-hosted Sourcegraph instances |
| 5. [Data protection](#5-data-protection)                                                                                              | Our policies for protecting your data                                                       |
| 6. [Confidentiality](#6-confidentiality)                                                                                              | Our mutual responsibilities to protect confidential data                                    |
| 7. [Term; termination](#7-term-termination)                                                                                           | When and how your account can be terminated                                                 |
| 8. [Fees](#8-fees)                                                                                                                    | Rules for payment for paid and Enterprise features                                          |
| 9. [Third party services and software](#9-third-party-services-and-software)                                                          | Our use of third party services and software                                                |
| 10. [No warranties; disclaimer](#10-no-warranties-disclaimer)                                                                         | We make no warranties about Sourcegraph                                                     |
| 11. [Limitation of liability](#11-limitation-of-liability)                                                                            | Our liabilities are limited                                                                 |
| 12. [Indemnification](#12-indemnification)                                                                                            | Your usage of Sourcegraph is at your own risk                                               |
| 13. [Export controls](#13-export-controls)                                                                                            | Usage restrictions in embargoed locations                                                   |
| 14. [Governing law; arbitration; and class action/jury trial waiver](#14-governing-law-arbitration-and-class-actionjury-trial-waiver) | Where and how disputes would be handled                                                     |
| 15. [Miscellaneous](#15-miscellaneous)                                                                                                | Miscellaneous topics                                                                        |
</TableWrapper>

<br/>
<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 1. Definitions

</span>

As used on this page, the following terms have the following specific meanings:

1.1 **“Agreement”** means, collectively, the terms and conditions laid out on this page (these **“Terms”**), and all other applicable rules, policies, and procedures that we may publish from time to time on the Site, including but not limited to our [Privacy Policy](/terms/privacy).

1.2 **“Content”** means any content made available through the Software, including but not limited to text (including Documentation), data, articles, images, photographs, videos, applications, software (including source code), and other materials, as well as the Software itself (with respect to us).

1.3 **“Documentation”** means the documentation regarding the Software that we make available for use at https://docs.sourcegraph.com.

1.4 **“Instance”** means the private instance of the Software that you create or use in order to analyze Your Code.

1.5 **“Site”** means our website located at sourcegraph.com, and all content, services, and products provided by us at or through the Site (or any subdomain or successor site).

1.6 **“Software”** means, collectively, the software provided by us for download via the Site and for installation on your equipment, including but not limited to the self-hosted or privately hosted Sourcegraph software and our browser and editor extensions (to the extent exclusively connected to a self-hosted or privately-hosted instance).

1.7 **“Sourcegraph”**, **“we”**, or **“us”** refers to Sourcegraph, Inc., as well as its affiliates.

1.8 **“You”** refers to the individual person, company, or organization that has visited or is using the Software, that accesses an Instance, or that directs the use of the Instance. If you’re entering into the Agreement on behalf of your company or organization (your **“Organization”**), you represent and warrant that you’re authorized to bind that company or organization to the Agreement and that you've read, understood, and agree to be bound by the Agreement on that company or organization’s behalf.

1.9 **“Your Code”** means the source code and all source code metadata (e.g. version control system (VCS) data) that you analyze via the Software.

<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 2. Account terms

</span>

<span style={{color: '#777777'}}><i>**Short version**: You – or the organization you work for – is responsible for your instance and its security, as well as everything posted on it. You must be 18 or over to use our services.</i></span>

2.1 **Account Responsibility and Security.**

1. **Generally**. If you’re entering into the Agreement on behalf of your Organization, your Organization has administrative control of all Instances tied to the Organization. You are or your Organization is fully responsible for your Instance and all Content posted under it.

2. **Age Limitation**. In order to create an Instance, you must be at least eighteen (18) years old and we do not permit any users under thirteen (13) years old to use our Software for any purpose. If we discover that an Instance is being used by a user under thirteen (13) years old, we will notify you that the Instance must immediately be shut down.

3. **Security**. You’re responsible for the security of your Instance when using our Software. While we may offer tools to help you maintain your Instance’s security, these are not guaranteed to work. You’re responsible for all Content posted on your Instance under your user account, even if you didn't post it. We have no liability of any kind for any loss or damage from your failure to secure your Instance.

<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 3. Acceptable use

</span>

<span style={{color: '#777777'}}><i>**Short version**: You’re allowed to use Sourcegraph for any reasonable purposes (e.g., don’t try to re-sell it, don’t violate your license, etc.). If you post any comments or other content, you’re responsible for it, and we have the right to display it to other users per your settings. If you give us a great idea about how to improve our services, we can use it.</i></span>

3.1 **License from Us to You**. The source code for our Software is publicly available at https://github.com/sourcegraph. Your rights to access and use that code is covered by the software license in that repository.

3.2 **Restrictions**. You may not, and may not permit any third-party to:

1. redistribute, encumber, sell, rent, lease, sublicense, or otherwise transfer rights to all or any part of the Software;

2. permit a number of users of the Software more than permitted by us; or

3. use the Software to analyze any source code or other Content that is not Your Code.

3.3 **Ownership of the Software**. The Software is owned and operated by Sourcegraph. All Content made available via the Software is owned by us or our licensors and is protected by intellectual property and other applicable laws. All of our trademarks, service marks, and trade names are proprietary to us or our affiliates.

3.4 **Ideas**. You may submit comments or ideas about the Software, such as how to improve it. By submitting a comment or idea, you agree that your disclosure is gratuitous, unsolicited and without restriction and will not place us under any fiduciary or other obligation, and that we are free to use the comment or idea without any additional compensation to you. By acceptance of your submission, we do not waive any rights to use similar ideas we already had or obtained from other sources.

3.5 **Extensions**. As described above, certain features of the Software may allow you to download software packages from the Extension Registry. These packages may be offered by us or by third-party providers. Packages made available by third-party providers are subject to separate terms and conditions and are not governed by these Terms.

<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 4. Usage data

</span>

<span style={{color: '#777777'}}><i>**Short version**: We have the right to collect aggregate and high-level data from private Sourcegraph instances, as described in our [Privacy Policy](/terms/privacy) and specifically listed in our [product documentation](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/pings).</i></span>

We may collect data derived from your use of the Software (**“Usage Data”**). A specific list of Usage Data that we receive from self-hosted and private instances is always available in our [Documentation](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/pings) and in the site-admin area on your Instance. You acknowledge and agree that Usage Data is owned solely and exclusively by us, and that we may use it for any legal purpose, including for purposes of operating, analyzing, improving, or marketing our products.

If we share or publicly disclose any information constituting or derived from Usage Data (e.g., in marketing materials), we will aggregate or anonymize that information to avoid identification.

<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 5. Data protection

</span>

<span style={{color: '#777777'}}><i>**Short version**: Our privacy policy tells you what you need to know about how we use any personal information you provide to us. The internet is a dangerous place and, while we’ve instituted safeguards to protect your information, you understand that data breaches happen and we can’t guarantee perfect security.</i></span>

Data security and user privacy are very, VERY important to us. Please read our [Privacy Policy](/terms/privacy) carefully for details relating to how we collect, use, and disclose personal information you provide to us in connection with your use of the Software.

We have implemented, and the Software contains, commercially reasonable technical and organizational measures designed to secure Your Code and any other information you provide that is stored on your Instance (which we do not have access to), and any information that we do have access to (such as support emails you send to us, Usage Data, etc.), from accidental loss and from unauthorized access, use, alteration or disclosure. However, we cannot guarantee that unauthorized third parties will never be able to defeat those measures or use your information for improper purposes. You understand that internet technologies have the inherent potential for disclosure. You acknowledge that you store sensitive information on your Instance, or provide any sensitive information to us at your own risk.

<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 6. Confidentiality

</span>

<span style={{color: '#777777'}}><i>**Short version**: You and we will each protect the other party’s confidential information.</i></span>

6.1 **Definition**. **"Confidential Information"** means all non-public information disclosed by us to you, or vice-versa, that is designated by the discloser as confidential or that reasonably should be considered confidential given the nature of the information or circumstances of its disclosure.

6.2 **Exclusions.** Confidential Information does not include any information that

1. was or becomes publicly known through no fault of the receiving party;

2. was rightfully known or becomes rightfully known to the receiving party without confidential restriction from a third-party that has a right to disclose it;

3. is approved by the disclosing party for disclosure without restriction in a written document or electronic record; or

4. the receiving party independently develops without access to or use of the other party's Confidential Information.

6.3 **Restrictions on Use and Disclosure**. Neither party will use the other party's Confidential Information except as permitted under this Agreement. Each party agrees to maintain in confidence and protect the other party's Confidential Information using at least the same degree of care as it uses for its own information of a similar nature, but in any event at least a reasonable degree of care. Each party agrees to take all reasonable precautions to prevent any unauthorized disclosure of the other party's Confidential Information, including, without limitation, disclosing such Confidential Information only to its employees, independent contractors, consultants, and legal and financial advisors (collectively, **"Representatives"**) who (i) have a need to know such information, and (ii) are subject to confidentiality obligations at least as protective of the Confidential Information as the terms of this Agreement. Each party is responsible for all acts and omissions of its Representatives. The foregoing obligations will not restrict either party from disclosing Confidential Information of the other party if required by any governmental body, so long as, to the extent allowed under applicable law, the party required to make the disclosure gives reasonable notice to the other party to enable it to contest the requirement. The restrictions set forth in this Section will survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.

<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 7. Term; Termination

</span>

<span style={{color: '#777777'}}><i>**Short version**: You may shut down your instance any time. We may terminate the agreement at any time, at which point your right to use the software will immediately expire.</i></span>

7.1 **Subscription Period**. This Agreement starts on the earlier of the date on which you: (a) agree to the terms and conditions of this Agreement; or (b) first set up an Instance and will continue in effect until either you or we terminate it (the **“Subscription Period”**).

7.2 **Termination for Convenience**. Either party may terminate this Agreement, for any reason or for no reason.

7.3 **Effect of Termination; Survival**. Upon termination of this Agreement, you may no longer use the Software, and if any fees were owed prior to termination, you must pay those fees immediately. Any provisions of this Agreement that, by their terms or their nature, should survive the termination of this Agreement shall so survive. For purposes of clarity, your right to use the Software will not survive any termination of this Agreement.

<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 8. Fees

</span>

<span style={{color: '#777777'}}><i>**Short version**: You’re responsible for any fees associated with your use of Sourcegraph. Pricing can change at any time, but you will receive notice at least seven days in advance. Your subscription will automatically renew.</i></span>

8.1 **Pricing**. You are responsible for paying any applicable fees as set forth on our [Pricing and Payment Terms](/pricing) and applicable taxes associated with the Software in a timely manner with a valid payment method. You agree that we may charge for any such fees owed. You are required to keep your billing information current.

8.2 **Term**. Authorization to charge your chosen payment method account will remain in effect until you cancel or modify your preference. You agree that charges may be accumulated as incurred and may be submitted as one or more aggregate charges during or at the end of the applicable billing cycle.

8.3 **Responsibility for Charges**. You are responsible for all charges incurred by usage of your Instance (whether made by you or anyone who may use your Instance, such as your co-workers, colleagues, team-members, etc.). If your payment method fails or you are past due on amounts owed, we may collect fees owed using other collection mechanisms. You are also responsible for paying any governmental taxes imposed on your use of the Software, including, but not limited to, sales, use, or value-added taxes.

8.4 **No Refunds**. All fees and charges are earned upon receipt by us and are nonrefundable unless negotiated otherwise, except (a) as expressly set forth herein, and/or (b) as required by applicable law.

8.5 **Price Changes**. We reserve the right to change the amount of, or basis for determining, any fees or charges for the Software, and to institute new fees, charges, or terms effective upon prior notice. You will receive notice of any fee change at least seven (7) days before the scheduled date of the transaction and failure to cancel your subscription will constitute acceptance of such fee change.

8.6 **Renewals**. Your subscription will be automatically renewed and your credit card account (or other payment method account) will be charged as follows without further authorization from you every month, year, or other period you subscribed to. You acknowledge that your subscription is subject to automatic renewals and you consent to and accept responsibility for all related recurring charges to your applicable payment method without further authorization from you and without further notice unless required by law. You acknowledge that the amount of the recurring charge may change if the applicable tax rates change or if there has been a change in the applicable fees.

8.7 **Cancellation**. Unless otherwise required by applicable law, for annual subscriptions, you must provide us with written notice of your intention not to renew at least fifteen (15) days prior to the end of the current term of your subscription.

<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 9. Third party services and software

</span>

<span style={{color: '#777777'}}><i>**Short version**: Third party services and software may be necessary for Sourcegraph to work (examples include libraries Sourcegraph uses internally, code hosts, authentication providers, external code analyzers, monitoring and tracing tools, etc.). We’re not responsible for anything provided by a third party, and additional terms and conditions may apply.</i></span>

The Software may call the servers of other websites or services (**“Third Party Services”**) in order to help you analyze Your Code. We make no warranties of any kind with regard to anything that is contained on or accessible through them. Access and use of Third Party Services is solely at your own risk.

The Software may contain copyrighted software of our licensors (**“Third Party Software”**). The licensors retain all right, title, and interest in and to such Third Party Software and all copies thereof. Your use of any Third Party Software is subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and any other terms and conditions in any Third Party Software documentation or printed materials (including EULAs).

If there's ever a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms applicable to any Third Party Software, and the conflict relates to the use of that Third Party Software, their terms and conditions will govern the conflict.

<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 10. No warranties; disclaimer

</span>

<span style={{color: '#777777'}}><i>**Short version**: Sourcegraph is provided “as is” with no guarantees of any kind (unless applicable law provides you additional mandatory rights). Please read this section carefully.</i></span>

THE SOFTWARE, AND ANY OTHER SOFTWARE, APPLICATIONS, PRODUCTS, AND SOFTWARE MADE AVAILABLE ON OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED ON AN “AS IS” AND “AS AVAILABLE” BASIS WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR OTHERWISE. WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMISSIBLE UNDER APPLICABLE LAW, SOURCEGRAPH DISCLAIMS, ON BEHALF OF ITSELF AND ITS LICENSORS, ALL WARRANTIES, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NONINFRINGEMENT. FURTHER, WE DO NOT WARRANT THAT THE SOFTWARE OR ANY PART THEREOF (OR YOUR ACCESS THERETO) WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, ERROR-FREE, OR FREE FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER HARMFUL COMPONENTS, WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS, OR THAT DEFECTS WILL BE CORRECTED.

CERTAIN JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF CERTAIN DAMAGES. IF THESE LAWS APPLY TO YOU, SOME OR ALL OF THE ABOVE DISCLAIMERS, EXCLUSIONS, OR LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU, AND YOU MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL RIGHTS AS PROVIDED BY LAW.

<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 11. Limitation of liability

</span>

<span style={{color: '#777777'}}><i>**Short version**: Our liability is limited to direct damages wherever possible, and to no more than $100 or the amount you paid us for access the software. Please read this section carefully.</i></span>

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, NEGLIGENCE, WILL WE (OR OUR AFFILIATES, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, LICENSORS, SUCCESSORS, OR ASSIGNS) BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE, RELIANCE, OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOSSES OR LIABILITY RESULTING FROM LOSS OF DATA, LOSS OF REVENUE, ANTICIPATED PROFITS, OR LOSS OF BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY) THAT RESULT FROM YOUR USE OR YOUR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE, OR ANY OTHER INTERACTIONS WITH US, EVEN IF WE OR A SOURCEGRAPH-AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

APPLICABLE LAW MAY NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY FOR INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. IN SUCH CASES, OUR LIABILITY WILL BE LIMITED TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.

IN NO EVENT WILL OUR (OR OUR AFFILIATES, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, LICENSORS, SUCCESSORS, OR ASSIGNS’) TOTAL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ALL DAMAGES, LOSSES, AND CAUSES OF ACTION ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THESE TERMS OR YOUR USE OF THE SOFTWARE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION YOUR INTERACTIONS WITH OTHER USERS, (WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE, WARRANTY, OR OTHERWISE) EXCEED THE AMOUNT PAID BY YOU, IF ANY, FOR THE SOFTWARE DURING THE TWELVE (12) MONTHS IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING THE DAY THE ACT OR OMISSION OCCURRED THAT GAVE RISE TO YOUR CLAIM OR ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100.00), WHICHEVER IS GREATER.

You acknowledge and agree that we have offered our products and services, set our prices, and entered into the Agreement in reliance upon the disclaimers of warranty and the limitations of liability set forth herein, that the disclaimers of warranty and the limitations of liability set forth herein reflect a reasonable and fair allocation of risk between the parties (including the risk that a contract remedy may fail of its essential purpose and cause consequential loss), and that the disclaimers of warranty and the limitations of liability set forth herein form an essential basis of the bargain between you and us.

<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 12. Indemnification

</span>

<span style={{color: '#777777'}}><i>**Short version**: Sourcegraph is provided at your own risk.</i></span>

You agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless Sourcegraph and its subsidiaries, agents, managers, and other affiliated companies, and their employees, contractors, agents, officers and directors, from and against any and all claims, damages, obligations, losses, liabilities, costs or debt, and expenses (including but not limited to attorney's fees) arising from:

1. your use of the Software, including any data or work transmitted or received by you;
2. your violation of any term of the Agreement, including without limitation, your breach of any of the representations and warranties above;
3. your violation of any third-party right, including without limitation any right of privacy, publicity rights or intellectual property rights;
4. your violation of any law, rule or regulation of the United States or any other country;
5. any claim or damages that arise as a result of your use of the Software or any Content submitted via your account; or
6. any other party's access and use of the Software with your unique username, password or other appropriate security code. We will have the right to control the defense, settlement, adjustment or compromise of any such claims, actions or proceedings by using counsel selected by us. We will use reasonable efforts to notify you of any such claims, actions, or proceedings upon becoming aware of the same.

<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 13. Export controls

</span>

<span style={{color: '#777777'}}><i>**Short version**: Don’t use our site or software if you’re located in an embargoed country.</i></span>

The Software and the underlying information and technology may not be downloaded or otherwise exported or re-exported (a) into (or to a national or resident of) any country to which the U.S. has embargoed goods; or (b) to anyone on the U.S. Treasury Department's list of Specially Designated Nationals or the U.S. Commerce Department's Table of Deny Orders. By downloading or using the Software, you are agreeing to the foregoing and you represent and warrant that you are not located in, under the control of, or a national or resident of any such country or on any such list and you agree to comply with all export laws and other applicable laws.

<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 14. Governing law; arbitration; and class action/jury trial waiver

</span>

<span style={{color: '#777777'}}><i>**Short version**: We’re based in California, so the agreement is governed by California law, and all disputes must be brought there. If you have a claim against us, you’ll work with us to arbitrate it on an individual basis instead of via class action or jury trial.</i></span>

14.1 **Governing Law**. The Agreement shall be governed by the internal substantive laws of the State of California, without respect to its conflict of laws principles. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence with respect to the substantive law, any arbitration conducted pursuant to the terms of these Terms shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. §§ 1-16). The application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. You agree to submit to the personal jurisdiction of the federal and state courts located in Santa Clara County, California for any actions for which we retain the right to seek injunctive or other equitable relief in a court of competent jurisdiction to prevent the actual or threatened infringement, misappropriation or violation of a our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents, or other intellectual property or proprietary rights, as set forth in the Arbitration provision below, including any provisional relief required to prevent irreparable harm. You agree that Santa Clara County, California is the proper forum for any appeals of an arbitration award or for trial court proceedings if the arbitration provision below is found to be unenforceable.

14.2 **Arbitration**. Read this section carefully because it requires the parties to arbitrate their disputes and limits the manner in which you can seek relief from us. For any dispute with us, you agree to first contact us at support@sourcegraph.com and attempt to resolve the dispute with us informally. In the unlikely event that we have not been able to resolve a dispute it has with you after sixty (60) days, we each agree to resolve any claim, dispute, or controversy (excluding any claims for injunctive or other equitable relief as provided below) arising out of or in connection with or relating to the Agreement, or the breach or alleged breach thereof, by binding arbitration by JAMS, under the Optional Expedited Arbitration Procedures then in effect for JAMS, except as provided herein. JAMS may be contacted at www.jamsadr.com. The arbitration will be conducted in Santa Clara County, California, unless we agree otherwise. If you are using the Software for commercial purposes, each party will be responsible for paying any JAMS filing, administrative and arbitrator fees in accordance with JAMS rules, and the award rendered by the arbitrator shall include costs of arbitration, reasonable attorneys' fees and reasonable costs for expert and other witnesses. Any judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction. Nothing in this section shall be deemed as preventing us from seeking injunctive or other equitable relief from the courts as necessary to prevent the actual or threatened infringement, misappropriation, or violation of our data security, intellectual property or other proprietary rights.

14.3 **Class Action/Jury Trial Waiver**. WITH RESPECT TO ALL PERSONS AND ENTITIES, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER THEY HAVE OBTAINED OR USED THE SOFTWARE FOR PERSONAL, COMMERCIAL OR OTHER PURPOSES, ALL CLAIMS MUST BE BROUGHT IN THE PARTIES' INDIVIDUAL CAPACITY, AND NOT AS A PLAINTIFF OR CLASS MEMBER IN ANY PURPORTED CLASS ACTION, COLLECTIVE ACTION, PRIVATE ATTORNEY GENERAL ACTION OR OTHER REPRESENTATIVE PROCEEDING. THIS WAIVER APPLIES TO CLASS ARBITRATION, AND, UNLESS WE AGREE OTHERWISE, THE ARBITRATOR MAY NOT CONSOLIDATE MORE THAN ONE PERSON'S CLAIMS. YOU AGREE THAT, BY ENTERING INTO THE AGREEMENT, WE ARE EACH WAIVING THE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY OR TO PARTICIPATE IN A CLASS ACTION, COLLECTIVE ACTION, PRIVATE ATTORNEY GENERAL ACTION, OR OTHER REPRESENTATIVE PROCEEDING OF ANY KIND.

<span className="text-blurple-400">

## 15. Miscellaneous

</span>

15.1 **Notices and Electronic Communications**. We may provide you with (and you hereby consent to our provision of) notices, including those regarding changes to our terms and conditions, by email, regular mail, or postings on the Site. Notice will be deemed given twenty-four hours after email is sent, unless we’re notified that the email address is invalid. Notice posted on the Site is deemed given five (5) days following the initial posting. We reserve the right to determine the form and means of providing notifications to our users, provided that you may opt out of certain means of notification as described in the Agreement. We are not responsible for any automatic filtering you or your network provider may apply to email notifications we send to the email address you provide us.

15.2 **Updates and Modifications**. We may, in our sole discretion, modify or update the Agreement (or any part thereof, including these Terms) from time to time, so you should review this page periodically. When we change the Agreement (or any part thereof, including these Terms) in a material manner, we will update the 'last modified' date at the top of this page and notify you that material changes have been made to the Agreement. Your continued use of the Software after any such change constitutes your acceptance of the new Terms of Service. If you do not agree to any of these terms or any future Terms of Service, do not use or access (or continue to access) the Software.

15.3 **U.S. Government End Users**. The Software and Documentation were developed by private financing and constitute a "Commercial Item," as that term is defined at 48 C.F.R. § 2.101. The Software and Documentation consist of "Commercial Computer Software" and "Commercial Computer Software Documentation," as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. § 12.212. Consistent with 48 C.F.R. § 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. §§ 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4, all U.S. Government End Users acquire only those rights in the Software and the Documentation that are specifically provided by this Agreement. Consistent with 48 C.F.R. § 12.211, all U.S. Government End Users acquire only technical data and the rights in that data customarily as specifically provided in this Agreement.

15.4 **Waiver**. Our failure to exercise or enforce any right or provision of the Agreement will not constitute a waiver of such right or provision. Any waiver of any provision of the Agreement will be effective only if in writing and signed by us.

15.5 **Severability**. If any provision of the Agreement is held to be unlawful, void, or for any reason unenforceable, then that provision will be limited or eliminated from the Agreement to the minimum extent necessary and will not affect the validity and enforceability of any remaining provisions; except that in the event of unenforceability of the universal Class Action/Jury Trial Waiver, the entire arbitration agreement shall be unenforceable.

15.6 **Assignment**. The Agreement and any rights and licenses granted hereunder, may not be transferred or assigned by you, but may be assigned by us without restriction.

15.7 **Survival**. Upon termination of the Agreement, any provision which, by its nature or express terms should survive, shall survive such termination or expiration.

15.8 **Headings**. The heading references herein are for convenience only, do not constitute a part of the Agreement, and will not be deemed to limit or affect any of the provisions hereof.

15.9. **Marketing and Publicity**. We may freely refer to your Organization and your relationship with us in connection with publicizing and marketing our products and services, including the Software. For example, we may use your Organization’s name, logo, and other brand indicia to identify your Organization as a current or former customer, we may use product testimonials and quotes your Organization’s representatives may provide to us, and we may do any of the foregoing on our website, in social media, in media communications, and otherwise in advertising our products and services and in our marketing and promotional materials.

15.10 **Entire Agreement**. This, including the agreements incorporated by reference, constitutes the entire agreement between you and us relating to the subject matter herein and will not be modified except in writing, signed by both parties, or by a change made by us as set forth in the Agreement.

15.11 **Claims**. To the extent permissible under applicable law, you and we agree that any cause of action you may have arising out of or related to the Software must commence within one (1) year after the cause of action accrues. Otherwise, such cause of action is permanently barred.

15.12 **Disclosures**. The Software is offered by Sourcegraph, Inc., located at 981 Mission St, San Francisco, CA 94103, and can be reached via email at support@sourcegraph.com or telephone at (650) 318-3480. If you are a California resident, (a) you may have this same information emailed to you by sending a letter to the foregoing address with your email address and a request for this information; and (b) in accordance with Cal. Civ. Code § 1789.3, you may report complaints to the Complaint Assistance Unit of the Division of Consumer Services of the California Department of Consumer Affairs by contacting them in writing at 1625 North Market Blvd., Suite N 112 Sacramento, CA 95834, or by telephone at (800) 952-5210 or (916) 445-1254.
