---
title: "Episode 14: Jonathan Carter, Visual Studio Live Share, GitHub Codespaces, Code Tour"
publishDate: 2020-11-09T10:00-07:00
tags: [podcast]
slug: jonathan-carter
published: false
---

<!-- START AUDIO -->
<audio className="object-center" src="https://www.buzzsprout.com/1097978/6096724-jonathan-carter.mp3" controls={true} preload="none"></audio>
<!-- END AUDIO -->

<!-- START GUESTS -->
<span>Jonathan Carter, Beyang Liu</span>
<!-- END GUESTS -->

<!-- START SUMMARY -->
[Jonathan Carter](https://twitter.com/LostInTangent) is the principle program manager at Microsoft for VS Code Liveshare, GitHub Codespaces, and Intellicode. We talk about how Liveshare is opening up new possibilities in pair programming, how Codespaces aims to reduce a key source of developer friction, and how he and his team want to enable more developers to say "yes" to the question, "Why not now?" Jonathan also talks about building dev tools in his spare time, including his latest project, Code Tour, a VS Code extension that lets you create guided tours through your codebase.
<!-- END SUMMARY -->

<!-- START SHOWNOTES -->
Jonathan Carter: https://twitter.com/LostInTangent, https://github.com/lostintangent

Visual Studio Live Share: https://code.visualstudio.com/blogs/2017/11/15/live-share

GitHub Codepaces: https://github.com/features/codespaces

Code Tour: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vsls-contrib.codetour

Gistpad: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vsls-contrib.gistfs

GitDoc: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vsls-contrib.gitdoc

Visual Studio: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/

Visual Studio Code: https://code.visualstudio.com/

Pair programming: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pair_programming

Inner source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inner_source

Visual Studio Intellicode (AI-assisted development): https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/services/intellicode/

GPT-3: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GPT-3
<!-- END SHOWNOTES -->

<!-- START TRANSCRIPT -->
*This transcript was generated using auto-transcription software.*

Beyang: all right. I'm here with Jonathan Carter principal program manager at Microsoft, where he works on code spaces vs code live share, and in Telecode. And he's also the author of several vs code related personal projects, including just pad Coture and get doc Jonathan, welcome to the show.

Jonathan: Thanks so much for having me. I'm excited to chat.

Beyang: Awesome. So you have quite the developer tools repertoire, but before we get into all of that, I always like to kick things off by asking folks, how did they get into programming? So what was kind of your first introduction to this strange world that we live in?

Jonathan: Yeah, that's a great question. I mean, it was more, uh, so I didn't have a computer in my house until I was 16. Um, and my best friend and I, you know, this was before everybody had cell phones and kind of connectivity, uh, Really just caught wind of like building web pages and being able to use that, to share ideas.

And so the moment that, you know, we had gotten a computer in my house and I, I recognized that I can start sharing music and pictures and ideas with some of my friends by means of, you know, geo cities and other free web hosting solutions. It kind of just. Became a passion for me that quickly devolved into building more complex applications and, you know, Hey, what's CSS.

And like, Hey, let's see, cool ended a database for this. Um, and then, you know, actually realized that there was some interesting opportunities from a professional perspective beyond just, you know, tinkering around with, with friends. My, my, my uncle. Worked at the clinic of courthouse for the local town that I'm from.

And he ended up offering me a couple of side jobs, helping build some software. Um, there really wasn't many ways, just a reflection of, you know, back in the day, if he knew how to write any sort of code, you could make money. Um, and so, uh, so yeah, I kind of just started. Building some very simple line of business applications.

And then while I was in high school, I had enough credits that I was able to start doing dual enrollment classes at a local community college. And so I kind of just snowballed from there where it really, like I said, got started as, as a means for me to, you know, share stuff with my friends and then quickly that turning into a.

A passion that I realized I was able to, there was a long road of things to learn and I was super eager to learn it. So the rest is history,

Beyang: Awesome. And from those early beginnings, what was kind of the rough path from there to, uh, Microsoft?

Jonathan: you know, I mean, I, I, I worked a lot of terrible jobs and had to write a lot of terrible code along the way. Um, You know, I, I did have a stint where I wrote cold fusion professionally for a good while. And in some ways that's kind of a badge of honor that anytime I ever meet somebody that, that did that, it's kind of like immediate kinship of shared experiences.

Um, uh, you know, and so I, I was a developer for probably five or six years. And most of the jobs that I worked looking back were were things that I wouldn't necessarily say were amazing, but they were the stepping stones for me to get the experience I needed building a bunch of different kinds of applications, I don't know. I probably had five or six different. Jobs kind of along my journey, working across PHP and cold fusion and did a little bit of Java and C plus plus, and pretty much anything that would pay. Um, and then I ended up working at a company that was a Microsoft partner and they really were keen to have folks on the team be what's called an MVP and Microsoft valued, most valuable professional.

And that person tends to be quite closely, you know, um, in close communication with different product teams at Microsoft. And so I ended up becoming a esp.net. MVP, which was the tech stack that company was working on. And as part of that, I ended up visiting Redmond to participate in a design discussion for some upcoming versions of the product of the dominant framework.

And while I was up there, somebody kind of approach me and yeah. Was like, Hey, would you be interested in interviewing? And, uh, You know, I was living in a smallest town in Florida. And so I thought the idea of moving to Seattle was pretty cool. And so, so I ended up interviewing and. Actually the position I interviewed for was for developer relations, which was actually quite a big departure from what I was doing.

. And that wasn't really something that I had been seeking, but I had started doing some public speaking at kind of user studies and code camps, and I kinda liked it. Um, I liked the idea of kind of helping, you know, distill new information to people and see a broader perspective on what different companies and developers were trying to achieve.

And. Be a part of that conversation. And so I hadn't really ever thought about devil, but, but I got the offer and thought, you know, Hey, I would not mind moving out of Florida, like nothing against Florida, but I, you know, the Pacific Northwest in Seattle seemed a bit cooler. Um, and, and also, you know, uh, Dot net was a huge in the, I was living in the Tampa Bay area of Florida.

And it was very much a very heavy dotnet kind of economy at that time back in kind of 2006. And so it seemed like a really huge opportunity to go work at Microsoft and be a part of something. Um, and so, yeah, that was, that was kinda how it started. And then I did that for about two years and then decided I wanted to get back closer to kind of the product team.

But after having done Devore all for a couple of years, um, made the decision to, you know, instead of going back to being a developer, you know, tried my hand at kind of product management. Um, and that's what I've been doing for the last 11 years. 

Beyang: Awesome. And these days, uh, your, your principal program manager, for variety of products, um, including live, share code spaces and in Telecode. Um, so I'd like to start with live share, cause that is a really interesting, uh, product that's built into vs code that allows developers to kind of share their working state inside the editor, . So essentially the way I describe it to people, it's like paraprogramming through your editor is that  a good way to describe it? Or, you know, what, what would, would be the way that you would introduce people to live share?

Jonathan: I think your description was really good. You know, usually what we often see is that folks, you know, think about collaboration based on existing tools that they already know. And so we often hear folks say, Oh, I have shares like. Is that Google docs for, for developers? Um, or is this kinda like a better screen share?

Um, so in some ways those can be viable ways to orient what live share is because when you think about Google docs, nobody customizes the Google client. Like we're all looking at it from the same. Color scheme. And you know, most often folks aren't seeming Google docs or tricking it out with extensions to look super pleasing.

Um, but as developers, that's not the case at all right. We spend a long time. Customizing and curating our font sizes are, you know, which, which side of the editor is your file tree on what color theme. And even within dark and light color themes, there's a million permutations. Um, and then you have things like.

You know, accessibility settings. So, you know, we, we see folks where, you know, maybe I am using a magnifier, um, or, or you're using a screen reader. And so with live share it, it became very clear that that collaboration from a tool or from an environment that was so highly tuned. For individual preference, visual familiarity, um, and enjoyment, um, that it, it felt like a big, um, for collaboration to have to occur by means of one person effectively looking at the world to the other person's lens, which is kind of what, what happens with screen-sharing.

Um, and so with, with live share, right, instead of. Opening up a screen share or pushing changes back and forth, maybe via a get branch that you're using for kind of asynchronous collaboration. It allows you to just at any time, push the share button, get a URL, and then send that to someone they can then effectively connect.

They're individualized instance of the SRVS code to your session, and then share just the context of the group code base that you have open and any of the supporting editor or runtime state needed to collaborate, but you're both within your own individual setup. And so for example, I could be in vias code on a Mac using a light theme.

You could connect to my session from visual studio on windows and in a totally different theme, we could just have completely different setups, but be able to work together without there being any divergence of what we're able to achieve. Um, And, and, and so with live share the other thing that's quite different, you know, analogy of kind of Google docs for developers is that when you're working on a Google doc, it's a single file.

Whereas with, with developers, right, we're working on multi file projects and it isn't just about the text of the code files itself. It's also the runtime impact. Of those code files. Um, and so with, with live share, you know, when you share with somebody you're sharing the entire scope of the project that you have open, you're able to share terminal output.

If you're working on a web application, you're able to share. They're running local host servers securely with the guests, enjoying your session. You're able to share language services so that as the two or more developers are editing files, it isn't just editing tax, but they're getting. You know, air light bulbs, they're getting auto-completion, they're getting refactoring suggestions so that it feels like a very rich developing environment that just happens to be fully collaborative.

Um, and without either either developer having to sacrifice kind of their individual set up.

Beyang: Yeah. Yeah. I can say as a user of live, share the experience of using it, uh, especially that first time, it almost feels like magic. Cause it almost feels like you have this, uh, like portal, um, to another person's. Editor. So, you know, I used it, uh, over the summer. I had a, an intern for the summer and we would use it in kind of these, uh, pair programming, debugging sessions.

So she would kind of share her, uh, Uh, I don't know what you'd call it like a live share session or, or instance, uh, with me and we'd go through and, uh, I could see where her cursor was pointing at. And then we, you know, would individually go and explore our separate threads for maybe a little bit, but then, you know, one of us would find something and then the other person could instantly hop to where our cursor was.

And, you know, you could both edit and it just felt very streamlined and very smooth.

Jonathan: Yeah, you actually just touched on kind of one of the other key values that we've, we've seen with live share, and why we sought to build it, which is a lot of times when we've talked to developers about pair programming, there are some folks that have a distaste for it because they perceive it as being this process by which one person is kind of a passive spectator for the other.

Um, which is if that works for folks is totally fine. Right? So we hear the traditional kind of, um, you know, driver navigator model or ping pong, pair programming. There's quite a diverse set of ways that people can collaborate. Um, but unfortunately there's really not a great one side. This fit fits all model for, for how collaboration can be.

Not only efficient for people, but actually something you enjoy to do and with live share, because you're, you're simply sharing context and one developers using your work, opening a portal to another developers kind of environment. It allows each person in the session to work on entirely different things.

In parallel and then when needed resynchronize and focus on the same thing, but it also allows you to do both in parallel where I'm working in one file, but I have a second editor window open that lets me watch what you're working on and kind of anywhere in between. And what we found is that that ends up being a, an experience that for people that had traditionally been.

Not huge fans of pair programming. All of a sudden are like, Hey, I now enjoy doing regular pair programming or regular collaboration because I can kind of swarm or rally around a problem, get a person to help me with something, but not feel like one or the other person is, as I mentioned, just kind of a passive observer of the session.

Beyang: Yeah, totally.  how was life share born? Like where did, where did the idea come from and how did you develop it in the initial stages?

Jonathan: It was really the inception of myself and a couple of other colleagues effectively taking some time to do some research into what were some of the biggest challenges that developer teams were having as they were beginning to become. More geo distributed. And as they were looking to increase their velocity to ship year, and as they were evolving their texts and becoming quote unquote more modernized and therefore everyone on the team was, was learning.

Right. It's like, in some ways the rate of change is so high nowadays that regardless how many years you've been a developer, you're still like a newbie to something. Um, And we really just found, um, and we'll speak to this. And some of the other things that my team is working on, um, a couple of key areas that felt like they were deserving of attention.

One of them was collaboration and the, you know, really developer collaboration hadn't really been. Innovated or given much love for a long time. And that screen-sharing was for all intents and purposes, kind of the state of the art and kind of speaking to some of the comments that I made previously, what we found is that there were a lot of folks that wanted to collaborate more or did collaborate a lot.

Um, Or teams, like I mentioned, that were becoming more geo distributed and we're kind of re asking themselves how to enable a culture of collaboration remotely. Um, and everybody was effectively solving that by means of screen-sharing and encountering the problems that, that I kind of discussed. And. In, you know, explaining live, share, which was, you know, Oh, I just can't stand to stare at this person's screen all day long.

You know, I, I, you know, I respect their right to configure their editor like that, but, you know, I can only handle it for so long or even things. Like you're collaborating with someone in another part of the world where their keyboard layout is totally different. And so as they press a key, it ends up being sent to your machine and turned into an unintended character.

Um, and so there, there were all these little paper cuts that, that really, it just became clear to me or to our team. That, um, there was an opportunity to help improve collaboration for developers and in a way, um, help teams embrace these trends and, and, and hopefully help people. Um, and, uh, so, you know, long before the age of COVID where everybody is now working remotely, um, You know, we, it was clear that that was something that was becoming more prevalent and we wanted to help support, you know, dev teams to be successful.

And collaboration is just so critical to that.

Beyang: Makes sense. Do you have a sense of who is using live, share heavily? Is it, you know, the people working in open source? Is it people working inside companies? Is it people working on side projects? 

Jonathan: Yeah, I mean, great question. I would say, you know, pair programming within companies is definitely one of the top use cases. Um, and I would say, you know, it is most useful for teams that are geo distributed. Um, but we also see lots of use of live share within teams that were all coal located. Um, because in many ways the benefits that I, that we talked about actually have little to do with whether you're in the same office or not.

we also see a lot of use of live share for educational settings. And so if you're in, you know, CS class, We see a lot of students that are using it for group projects or TA assistance, um, uh, whether, whether it's, you know, bootcamp or, you know, higher education. Um, we also see a lot of use of live share within hackathons. Um, we've also begun to kind of see and foster the use of live share for, for interviewing, which depending on the way that you want to use or the way you want your interview to be performed can end up looking a bit like a pair programming session. Um, and then, you know, I would say within open source, um, we definitely do see.

A lot of that as well, where, you know, folks that are maybe first time contributors to a project, um, or folks wanted, like, let's say rally around, like, Hey, you know, this week is a doc bash where the communities looking to kinda put some extra attention on improving the documentation for our project, we'll see instances where they'll use live, share to kind of.

Collect their efforts together and kind of help include folks in the broader community into a session that they might not otherwise have been immediately comfortable with knowing how to start contributing on their own. Um, and so, yeah, there's a pretty, pretty diverse set of use cases. I would say though, the primary are, you know, pair programming within teams, um, and then kind of classroom.

A collaboration for group projects, those kind of represent the bulk. Um, and then there's a bit of a tale of kind of these other adjacent collaboration scenarios that we see quite a bit as well.

Beyang: Awesome. I feel like, you know, we could spend an entire episode probably more on just live, share alone, but there's a bunch of other interesting stuff on and get to one of those being, uh, code spaces, which is a, uh, another, um, product that's under the purview of your team. Um, and I think a lot of people know what code spaces is, but, you know, just in case we have listeners who are unfamiliar with it.

Can you give us a quick intro?

Jonathan: yeah. Code spaces really is a one click developer environment in the cloud so that folks can get started contributing to a project. You know, in, in theory instantaneously, um, we have quite a bit of ways to go to keep that promise. Um, but you know, as you joined the team or as you want to contribute to an open source or inner source project within a company, we want to make it so easy to do that.

That you're more likely to actually do it. Versus not do it. Um, and so what, what code space is really is, is, uh, a service that, you know, like I mentioned, lets you from a repo or a pull request on get hub.com, click a button and within, you know, a minute or so, be connected to a fully set up. Developer environment that clone the repo, looked at the code base set itself up for all of the requirements needed to start working on it.

Um, and then giving you access to a full fidelity version vs code directly from your browser. And so we, we also have support for connecting to code spaces from. The visual studio and visual studio code desktop clients as well, um, which really is there to speak to making sure that folks can make use of the tools that they know and love and kind of prefer.

Um, but yeah, really code spaces is about how do we. Completely eradicate the complexity and time required to get set up, to contribute to a project and help enable folks to go directly to actually writing code and contributing whenever they want to.

Beyang: Awesome. And I understand from kind of a branding point of view, there's like visual studio code spaces, there's GitHub code spaces, but I believe those are the same things in the backend. Uh right. Or, or are they, uh, perhaps subtly different in some way?

Jonathan: Yup. So my, my team had, when we first built code spaces, uh, we built it as a service that was available and kind of usable through Azure. That way, folks that were already familiar with was using Azure and had subscriptions and had to establish billing relationships. They had a really straightforward way of starting to use the service.

Um, and then we ended up partnering with GitHub to build a native experience through github.com. So that folks that were using GitHub had an extremely low barrier of entry to starting to use the product, um, which for folks that were already hosting their code on GitHub. You just couldn't make it any simpler than giving you a button right there on the repo or PR page.

And so, um, so over time, you know, what we learned was just from enough feedback from folks that, you know, we wanted to make sure that we had super simple and clear. Product acquisition experience that, you know, didn't give folks kind of unnecessary or potentially confusing choice. And so we recently made the announcement that we're consolidating the code spaces experience into just the get hub native offering.

Um, and so, so yeah, there was, there was always the code spaces service that was available via two different kind of front doors, so to speak. Um, whereas now we're in the process of consolidating that to become, just to get hub native experience.

Beyang: Got it I guess, like, it seems like the Holy grail experience after his, you know, I visit a repositor and GitHub, it looks interesting. Uh, I want to contribute in some way or maybe, you know, I found a bug, uh, but I don't have a development environment set up. Uh, and it's such a hassle. Like, it's always a big question, Mark.

Like, okay. If I cloning is easy enough, but like, like, Actually setting up a dev environment and my editor with, uh, you know, auto-complete and, uh, installing all the dependencies, making it work that is kind of like a rabbit hole. Right. And so your, your aim is to make it possible for someone to just go to any GitHub, repo, click a button, and instantly they have this, uh, like dev environment in their browser that allows them to easily make the change they're trying to make.

Is that kind of thing that you're after.

Jonathan: yup. Yup. A hundred percent. Yeah. I mean, we often, as you see with, with open source projects or any project for that matter, there's always. Some form of documentation, that explains here's how to get set up working on this repository. Um, and so what code spaces really wants to do is exactly like you just said by how can we make it such that the.

The documentation for how to get set up can be replaced with configuration that is stored in the repo itself, along with the code base, and then allow a service to effectively use that to spin up and do all of the setup for you. Knowing exactly what the requirements of that project are so that you don't have to go through the guesswork of doing it.

, so yeah, that, you know, we've talked to so many teams where they express this, the sentiment of wanting to do more open source contributions, or wanting to contribute to. No, not even just open source, but you know, as I mentioned, inner source, so like large companies that have a lot of, you know, intra company projects where they invite or want to foster cross team contributions.

And it does, you know, on the surface seem like, well to clone and set up the, my machine and, you know, installed this version of Java or whatever. Like, is it really that much work, but in practice, like the thing is, is that we're all so insanely busy, that, even something that takes. Five to 10 minutes, like, let's assume that a project is just a beacon of efficiency and that it is not the convoluted.

Like this is going to take half a day to get going. Even if it is just five to 10 minutes. The reality is, is that that is enough to kill a lot of opportunistic. Situations where somebody like you were saying might see a bug or they see an opportunity in an open source project. They would love to contribute, but it's just enough friction to break the impulse in them to kind of move on.

Um, and that's just, like I said, a function of, you know, we have to respect our time and our focus. And so with our, with code spaces, really the hope is like, How do you make contributing to projects? Quote unquote, why not now? Easy? Um, and that was actually somebody who is, uh, who was one of our earliest users of code spaces referred to it as that.

And I've kind of latched onto it because it's like that notion of, you know, Hey, I, I see something I can help contribute to here. Um, no, and you almost have an internal dialogue with yourself. Why not now is today, the day that I send a PR to the react JS code base, like Hmm. You know, and if we give it, if we give you a single button, click that within seconds, you can actually turn that idea into reality.

Um, we hope that that can actually improve, you know, folks, workflow, um, and enable kind of more collaboration as a result.

Beyang: yeah. Actually the way that you just described, uh, sort of the value proposition of code spaces is all similar to the way that we described value proposition and source graph, and a lot of ways in that. You know, if you're doing a search over code, like source graph is not the first thing, a search of your code base, right?

Like there's, uh, many different ways. He clone it, tier, uh, local machines, for sure, with Greg or just circumstance, your editor. Uh, and a lot of people ask that question in the early days. What new capabilities does this give you? And it's like, well, none, but like how many of those searches are you doing now?

And how many of those are you not doing? Just because it's like. You know, there's this little thing inside your brain that triggers on like annoyance or, or, uh, you know, extra effort, um, and lowering that kind of friction, uh, or, or activation energy will actually yield you a result that lets you do a lot more of that action.

Um, so yeah, 

Jonathan: Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting. Like, I, this is like a super lame and uninteresting anecdote, but I, I did this experiment one time where. Uh, we usually store our vacuum cleaner in our basement because that's where there's space for it. Um, but there was one time where I was vacuuming our main floor carpet.

And after I was done, I decided to just leave the vacuum out, like right there in the living room. Um, and what happened is because that the vacuum was there, it became easier to always vacuum. Right. And so whether it was me or my wife, or even my kids, they were like, Hey, let's vacuum. You know, it

so simple would have been so simple to just walk down the staircase to get the vacuum. How do we wanted to vacuum? Um, but there's something very powerful about having something within arm's reach and enabling that to help you. With behavior change that you might otherwise also want to do. Um, and so, so yeah, like with, with, with of code spaces, you know, or source graph, right?

It's like, how do you make it such that when you have a question or you have a thought or an idea that it's, it's directly within, arm's reach for you to do so that it's so simple to actually take action on it, um, in a way that that is likely to happen.

Beyang: Yeah, totally. so there, there have been kind of attempts to do something like code spaces in the past. , they go under, you know, various names, usually under the banner of some sort of like. Online IDE or ready-made a development environment in the cloud cloud based development environments.

Um, what do you think is really setting coast spaces, uh, apart from these , previous attempts? Like why, why do you think coast spaces is really gonna, you know, click and take off where, prior attempts? Uh, I don't think any of them have reached the level of adoption that their creators envisioned.

Jonathan: When we had first kind of set out to research and learn whether there was actually value in us doing code spaces. What we found was that most people that had developed a distaste for cloud IDs or some sort of remote developer environment solution, was that they found it required them to sacrifice more than they were getting in return.

And so, for example, maybe they had tried. A web editor or a web ID in the past, but it was significantly different from what they would otherwise have used, or it was significantly fragmented from the ecosystem that they otherwise wanted to be a part of. And it just seemed like they were having to choose between their developer tool or a turnkey, easy onboardings service to make it, you know, rapid to get started working on a project.

Um, and as we were kind of just chatting about with live share, um, any time that you take a bet on something that requires developers to have to sacrifice their individuals set up and kind of personalizations, you're probably going to fail. Um, like it's just a bad, bad bet to take. Like I'm not interested in that somebody else can do it.

Um, and so with, with code spaces, Like, because the editing experience is literally full fidelity, 100% visual studio code in your browser. We believe that it changes a huge reason why people were originally very hesitant to even explore web based editors because. All of a sudden every extension that you're using today or that you want to potential use in the future is going to work your theme, your key bindings, all of the muscle memory and ergonomics that you built up over time, continue to function.

Exactly. And then furthermore, as I was kind of mentioning a moment ago, We built the service to not put all this emphasis on a web editor, really the environment that provides you with a completely set up free onboarding experience. And by us also supporting, connecting to code spaces from visual studio code, desktop, or visual studio IDE.

All of a sudden, I think that also changes a big part of kind of why and other tools maybe haven't worked is because many people don't want to work all day long in the browser. Um, I happen to be a person that kind of does like I on my Mac, the reasoning I use all day long, whether it's outlook or teams or zoom or Zencaster or code spaces.

I run it in the browser. I constantly get, you know, uh, not made fun of, but people that's, that's kind of strange. Right. Um, and so by, by kind of focusing on like, what is the, what is the actual problem that we're trying to solve and then not requiring you to change something in order to achieve that? Um, I think as a key part of why, um, we've found code spaces to be quite compelling because if you're already using visual studio or visual studio code and you want to have a better, more lightweight contribution experience, you can achieve that and it look and feel identical to how you work today.

Um, and so, you know, if you look on Twitter, for example, and you search for code spaces, you'll just see. A sea of folks where they're kind of reaction is, wow, I can't believe X works or this extension works. Or, you know, I would have swore this couldn't possibly work. Um, but it does. Um, that's great because that's folks echoing in that sentiment that I mentioned of assuming that a cloud based developer environment is going to be kind of a.

A facsimile or a shadow of what we normally would expect it to be. Um, and so, uh, so yeah, having that kind of no sacrifices experience, um, uh, is kind of a key part of it.

  Beyang:  I think I'm similar to you in that I run a, basically everything in the browser, you know, like Slack is in the browser or the calendars and the browser emails in the browser. I really dislike. I really prefer if I can run in a browser versus like a native app, I think I'll opt for the browser.

Uh, with one exception and that is my code editor. So it is great that I can connect to a code space through the vs code native app. In addition to opening it up in a, in a browser tab.

Jonathan: Yeah, which I think is really keen to me, like live share is very much speaks to the same way where I think there's a lens that I look at through every product that, that I'm ever involved in, which is how do we solve only the problem we're trying to solve and not introduce new ones for people. And so, in your case, you already have Visco code desktop on your machine and you're enjoying it.

So I don't have any reason to want you to change. Um, and you know, same thing with was last year, right? Like how do you collaborate in a way that doesn't require you to change anything? Um, I, I just think, you know, for developers, it's, that's, uh, we've continued to find that's a pretty meaningful, uh, you know, benefit for folks to, to gain something without losing anything in return.

Beyang:  I want to turn now to one of your personal projects. So everything we've talked to so far is stuff that you do in kind of your official capacity, uh, at Microsoft.

but you, you have a number of interesting, personal projects. And one of these is, Code tour. So it's an extension that allows you to build tutorials and onboarding experiences to code bases, uh, that people can use right. In. Vs code. Um, and I think it's really cool. You've, you've tweeted about it a bunch.

When I first saw it, I was like, Holy crap. Like this would be like, I want this, like, this would help me. It would have helped a lot of people, uh, that we've, we've onboarded to the code base at source craft. So, um, yeah, I guess  I'll turn things over to you and let you describe, what it is.

Jonathan: Yeah. I mean, the, the kind of. Inception point for code tour was as our team was building out code spaces and we kind of thought to ourselves, Hey, if we're successful in enabling developers to have a one-click experience that gets them from a code base into a fully setup environment, that they can start coding.

What's kind of the next problem that, that developers the hit in terms of being successful. Um, and how do we embrace kind of onboarding from a holistic sense versus just thinking about it from setting up a, uh, you know, a dev box in the cloud. And so it's coach, or that became an exploration into how could we move.

Onboarding or developer documentation closer to the code itself so that it became immediately. Recognizable and immersive. Once somebody had jumped into a code space or clone to repo and opened it in their editor, um, and was effectively guided through a story or a tour, uh, as we call it, um, that helps walk them through an orient themselves with that code base.

Um, And, and because of the fact that it's happening within your editor, kind of the belief or the hypothesis was that people might be more likely to actually do it and read it. Um, whereas if you have companion documentation, um, it's very easy for that to be kind of out of sight out of mind, but also once you kind of have this code base walkthrough within the editor, um, The documentation itself could then potentially become much more interactive.

So each step could not just explain a part of the code base, but it could then actually have mechanisms for guiding you through doing a build of the project or automating beginning of debugging session. Or helping show here's where you would create a file to add a new component to the repository for let's say, a react JS application.

Um, and so, so yeah, really Coture is, uh, currently, right. It's an, uh, an extension for vs code that lets you record and then playback multi-step guided walkthroughs of a code base. Um, and it has a, uh, visual recorder because to me it, you know, it felt important that the act of creating these tours or these walkthroughs was itself very easy to, to offer as well as edit.

And so the way that it kind of works is you just. Click a button to start a new tour. And then within vs code, you can then navigate files and start adding annotations two lines of code with the necessary pros, much like you might add comments to a full request. Um, and so those. Those steps are ordered and you can rearrange them.

And behind the scenes, the tour itself has persisted as, as just adjacent file in the repository itself, which makes it easy to total viewing on it, um, to kind of collaborate, uh, right now Coture only supports vs code, but, but as I mentioned, because the Torres is, is really just an artifact in the repo. Um, that really kind of sets it up to become something that other editors could, could light up and become aware of as well.

Mmm. And so, so yeah, code tour was really an expansion of, of kind of the Headspace of how do we makes onboarding better? How do we make kind of collaboration and the sharing of knowledge better? Um, in a way where we kind of accept that. Documentation. That is a secondary asset outside of your editor is easy to ignore, easy not to maintain.

Um, and so if we put something in the editor, you know, I there's this belief that it folks would be more likely to curate it and groom it and actually use it. Um, and, uh, And so, yeah, it's, it's been pretty exciting to see the response from the community for sure. Cause I really wasn't, it wasn't clear to me when we, you know, myself and some of my colleagues when we first started talking about it, it was very much like.

This is maybe a terrible idea, but let's try it. Um, and it was by far the most, uh, I would say from a pure vanity metric perspective, it was one of the more successful things I've ever worked on. By virtue of like engagements on hacker news and on Twitter and get hub repose, just surpassed a thousand stars, which is minuscule compared to a lot of projects, but, you know, um, so, so it's been it's it's, it's been, yeah, it's been exciting to see the interest in, in folks.

Like the thing to me that was the most exciting. Was was people kind of coming by large to really, uh, express their excitement and seeing attention being given on these kinds of problems, um, which is in many ways, really my passion is like, whether it's live SlideShare code spaces or code tour or the thing, um, it's like, where are there areas that just feel.

Really ready for a bit of love, right? Like it's, it's just something that we've gotten used to as developers of dealing with kind of the current status quo, but like maybe we can rethink this and do it in a different way. Um, and, and so, 

Beyang: Have you been able to use Coture at all for any sort of onboardings or tutorials to the code that you are gone either, you know, on your personal time or, or at Microsoft?

Jonathan: So I would say, you know, at Microsoft, um, a big percentage of the developer teams that I work with, um, you know, use a mix of visual studio and visual studio code. And so I think for sure, you know, one learning that is very clear is in order for something like that to, to kind of take up. Broad adoption or be successful in the team is, you know, you need to make sure it supports the tools that people yeah.

You have the right editor coverage. Um, that said, um, you know, within kind of my side projects and amongst some of the open source work that I do with some of my, you know, uh, frequent collaborators, so to speak, um, yeah, we have started using code tour for kind of doing. Documentation. So to speak of like, Hey, I just added this new area of the code base.

And while it's fresh in my mind, let me go ahead and just create a quick tour. Um, and so a lot of the refinement that, you know, we've done over the last few months, trying to improve or streamline the offering experience was based on actually using it. And then I've also been, you know, pretty keen on collaborating and chatting with other folks that are, that are actually using it in practice where, you know, we have a few kind of learning platforms that have kind of started to express some interest in looking at Coture as a means for providing a bit more interactivity for their content within the editor versus, you know, kind of having.

You know, a documentation page and then asking somebody to switch to their editor and then kind of switch back to the docs and, um, you know, maybe lose some of their context in the process. Um, and so I would say, you know, uh, Coture is, is very early in its stages of validating whether or not this is the right approach.

Um, and so right now I'm. Very focused and keen on like looking to get more success stories from folks. Um, we have a lot of interests right now. Um, but, uh, you know, um, I think there's still a couple of interesting challenges ahead, which is good because that's kind of one, one of the reasons why I like doing.

Extra curricular, um, exploration, um, is because, you know, sometimes there's only so much you can predict or learn through research versus, um, you know, to me, I like open source because it's almost like having a conversation with the ecosystem by means of MVP or a prototype or, you know, something where. If you try to explain it, um, in the abstract, it would be maybe a little bit less clear what you were talking about versus, you know, being able to illustrator demonstrate the beginning of an idea that you then want to use to see the discussion around getting to something that is truly achieving the goal that it has.

Um, and so. So I think there's, there's quite a bit of room for improvement with code tour, but we've seen some pretty exciting early, early usage of it, you know, in education and training and team onboarding, um, that, uh, I think for us to, to scale it up a bit more within, within Microsoft, we would need at a minimum visual studio support.

Um, and so that's something that I'm interested in looking at pretty soon.

Beyang: Awesome. one last thing Jonathan, , if there's like one thing that you're most excited about, uh, that you're currently working on that's. You know, going to be released or coming out in the next couple months what is that thing?

Jonathan: Um, you know, we didn't, uh, one of the other things that my team works on that we didn't get to is this product called and Telecode, um, which is, is really all about how can we up level what we traditionally think of as productivity tooling in the IBE. By by taking all of the features that, that typically work based on kind of static analysis and kind of augmenting them with insights that come from learning all of these best practices from the open source community, um, and get home.

And so one thing that we've been working on that I'm pretty excited about is this feature within Telecode called suggestions where. It will actually observe patterns and quote unquote repeated edits that you're making while you're coding, and then suggests other locations within the code base that you can make similar changes.

Um, and so for example, if you're making a refactoring, um, or making a kind of a style change, um, it's a very common bug we've observed where folks, maybe aren't aware of all the other locations that they could make that change, or if they tried to do, uh, uh, find across the code base. So regular expression they would need to write would be sufficiently complex, that they just don't do it.

Um, whereas, you know, with this town of capability that we're working on, you know, we are excited to be able to turn. Your intent, right? Like I made this change a couple of times, I've signaled intent that I want to kind of adopt this pattern. Um, and then we can translate that into something that you can replicate across your entire code base.

And then also in the longterm, be able to codify in a way that maybe becomes. Almost like de facto style or kind of best practice guidelines for your team, that you can help each other remain more consistent, um, and make the code base more maintainable over time. Um, so that's definitely something that I'm pretty excited about.

Um, just because I think there's a lot of energy and interests, you know, the whole GPT three thing didn't help, but people are very keen on how can. AI and ML help Uplevel developer productivity in a very practical way. Um, and so, so, uh, so yeah, I'm excited about some of the things we're doing in that space.

Beyang: That sounds incredibly interesting. And if you're up for it, uh, I might have to ask you back on the show to talk about that. Cause that sounds like a whole nother show of, of interesting discussion.

Jonathan: Yeah. Just let me know.

Beyang: Alright, cool. thanks Jonathan, for coming on the show today and, uh, I'll be watching your Twitter feed with great anticipation. 
<!-- END TRANSCRIPT -->
