content/terms/index.md, before:

---
layout: markdown
title: Terms of Service
---

Thank you for using Sourcegraph! Select the appropriate Terms of Service below.

## Terms of Service index

Are you interested in terms for...

- **[A self-hosted Sourcegraph instance](/terms/self-hosted)**: If you’d like to use a self-hosted Sourcegraph instance (e.g. one deployed via the `docker run` command in our [Quickstart](https://docs.sourcegraph.com)) to search, navigate, and analyze your code, rather than use Sourcegraph Cloud, or if you’d like to use any products (e.g. browser or editor extensions) developed and distributed by us for use with your self-hosted instance, please see our [terms and conditions](/terms/self-hosted).

- **[Sourcegraph Cloud](/terms/cloud)**: If you’d like to use Sourcegraph Cloud to search, navigate, and analyze code rather than a self-hosted instance, or if you’d like to use any products (e.g. browser or editor extensions) developed and distributed by us for use with Sourcegraph Cloud, please see our [Sourcegraph Cloud terms and conditions](/terms/cloud).

- **Sourcegraph extensions**: If you’d like to use any extensions made available via our [extension registry](https://sourcegraph.com/extensions), please understand that extensions made available by third-parties are not provided by us and are generally governed by separate terms and conditions. Extensions that are developed and distributed by us are governed by the appropriate terms and conditions (for a self-hosted Sourcegraph instance, or for Sourcegraph Cloud) above.

- **[Government](/terms/gov)**: Certain features of our software may have their own terms and conditions that you must agree to when you sign up for that particular feature. As an example, if you’re using our software as an employee or contractor of the U.S. Government, our [Supplemental Terms for U.S. Government Users](/terms/gov) apply. Those terms and conditions supplement these terms and conditions.

- **[Cody](/terms/cody-notice)**: Terms for Cody.

- **[Professional Services](/terms/professional-services)**: Terms and descriptions for Sourcegraph's Professional Services Offerings.

Commit message:

Update index to streamline self-hosted and hosted terms, remove extensions registry.md (#6607)

content/terms/index.md, after:

---
layout: markdown
title: Terms of Service
---

Thank you for using Sourcegraph! Select the appropriate Terms of Service below.

## Terms of Service index

Are you interested in terms for...

- **[Sourcegraph](/terms/cloud)**: If you’d like to use Sourcegraph products to write, find, test, and fix code, please see our [Sourcegraph terms and conditions](/terms/cloud). These terms apply to Cody and code search for hosted and self-hosted instances. 

- **[Government](/terms/gov)**: Certain features of our software may have their own terms and conditions that you must agree to when you sign up for that particular feature. As an example, if you’re using our software as an employee or contractor of the U.S. Government, our [Supplemental Terms for U.S. Government Users](/terms/gov) apply. Those terms and conditions supplement these terms and conditions.

- **[Cody](/terms/cody-notice)**: Cody-specific terms that apply to customers who entered into Sourcegraph terms pre-Cody.

- **[Professional Services](/terms/professional-services)**: Terms for Sourcegraph's Professional Services Offerings.
