content/terms/subprocessors.md, before:

---
layout: markdown
title: Subprocessors
description: This page lists the subsprocessors that Sourcegraph may use
---

Last modified: December 15, 2023

Sourcegraph, Inc. (“Sourcegraph”) uses certain third party sub-processors (“Sub-processors”) to assist in providing the Services described in the Sourcegraph Terms of Service available at [https://about.sourcegraph.com/terms/](/terms/) and/or as set forth in an applicable Order Form. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the applicable Sourcegraph Terms of Service.

Sourcegraph will update this page when engaging a new Sub-processor, and if you [subscribe for updates](#sign-up), Sourcegraph will notify you by email of changes to this page.

Sourcegraph engages Sub-processors to perform the functions described in the table below. For Sourcegraph’s On Prem product, personal data will only be processed by Sub-processors to the extent such data is shared by Customer with Sourcegraph for the purpose of delivering support services.

<TableWrapper>
| Third-party Subprocessor | Location       | Service Provided                                                                                                                                                   | Applicable product                                 |
| ------------------------ | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| Anthropic AI               | USA            | Processes user queries and code snippets submitted to Sourcegraph Cody                                                                                                                                            | Cody                           |
| Cloudflare               | USA            | Processes customer request data such as IP addresses to optimize security and performance of Sourcegraph Cloud and Sourcegraph.com                                 | Sourcegraph.com<br/>Sourcegraph Cloud<br/>Cody              |
| Fireworks AI             | USA            | Processes user queries and code snippets submitted to Sourcegraph Cody                                                                                                                                            | Cody                           |
| Google                   | USA            | Provides cloud hosting for Sourcegraph.com and Sourcegraph Cloud (Google Cloud Platform)<br/>Stores dashboard analytics for Sourcegraph.com and Sourcegraph Cloud (BigQuery) | Sourcegraph.com<br/>Sourcegraph Cloud |
| OpenAI                  | USA            | Processes user queries and source code to generate embeddings that improve search functionality when using Cody and only when enabled by customer                                                                                                                    | Cody                                  |
| Honeycomb                   | USA            | Processes any information sent for debugging purposes                                                            | Sourcegraph.com<br/>Cody                                    |
| Sentry                   | USA            | Processes error data, which can include email addresses and other personal data, for debugging purposes                                                            | Sourcegraph.com<br/>Cody                                    |
| Sparkpost                | USA            | Processes account verification and other service-related emails                                                                                                                                      | Sourcegraph Cloud<br/>Cody Pro                                  |
</TableWrapper>

<h2 id='sign-up'>Sign Up</h2>

Complete this form to be notified of changes to our sub-processors.

<HubSpotForm masterFormName="gatedEmail" inlineMessage="Thank you for your interest in Sourcegraph. You will be notified of any changes to our sub-processors." />

Commit message:

Update subprocessors (preamble language update).md (#6656)

content/terms/subprocessors.md, after:

---
layout: markdown
title: Subprocessors
description: This page lists the subsprocessors that Sourcegraph may use
---

Last modified: December 15, 2023

Sourcegraph, Inc. (“Sourcegraph”) uses certain third party subprocessors (“Subprocessors”) to assist in providing the Services described in the Sourcegraph Terms of Service available at [https://about.sourcegraph.com/terms/](/terms/) and/or as set forth in an applicable Order Form. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the applicable Sourcegraph Terms of Service.

Sourcegraph will update this page when engaging a new Subprocessor, and if you [subscribe for updates](#sign-up), Sourcegraph will notify you by email of changes to this page.

Sourcegraph engages Subprocessors to perform the functions described in the table below. For Sourcegraph’s self-hosted product, personal data will only be processed to the extent such data is shared by Customer with Sourcegraph for the purpose of delivering support services.

<TableWrapper>
| Third-party Subprocessor | Location       | Service Provided                                                                                                                                                   | Applicable product                                 |
| ------------------------ | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| Anthropic AI               | USA            | Processes user queries and code snippets submitted to Sourcegraph Cody                                                                                                                                            | Cody                           |
| Cloudflare               | USA            | Processes customer request data such as IP addresses to optimize security and performance of Sourcegraph Cloud and Sourcegraph.com                                 | Sourcegraph.com<br/>Sourcegraph Cloud<br/>Cody              |
| Fireworks AI             | USA            | Processes user queries and code snippets submitted to Sourcegraph Cody                                                                                                                                            | Cody                           |
| Google                   | USA            | Provides cloud hosting for Sourcegraph.com and Sourcegraph Cloud (Google Cloud Platform)<br/>Stores dashboard analytics for Sourcegraph.com and Sourcegraph Cloud (BigQuery) | Sourcegraph.com<br/>Sourcegraph Cloud |
| OpenAI                  | USA            | Processes user queries and source code to generate embeddings that improve search functionality when using Cody and only when enabled by customer                                                                                                                    | Cody                                  |
| Honeycomb                   | USA            | Processes any information sent for debugging purposes                                                            | Sourcegraph.com<br/>Cody                                    |
| Sentry                   | USA            | Processes error data, which can include email addresses and other personal data, for debugging purposes                                                            | Sourcegraph.com<br/>Cody                                    |
| Sparkpost                | USA            | Processes account verification and other service-related emails                                                                                                                                      | Sourcegraph Cloud<br/>Cody Pro                                  |
</TableWrapper>

<h2 id='sign-up'>Sign Up</h2>

Complete this form to be notified of changes to our sub-processors.

<HubSpotForm masterFormName="gatedEmail" inlineMessage="Thank you for your interest in Sourcegraph. You will be notified of any changes to our sub-processors." />
