# 2021 Engineering Organization Plan

Defining a future vision for the organization is necessary to effectively grow the engineering team. It is understood that all plans change, and this document will be kept up to date with these changes. This is our written plan to align the team and clarify hiring and growth expectations.

[2021 headcount plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UG4aLB5S8yOSOByia2EQgpZkoPxG5eVfqQqgs1f71Vw/edit#gid=2097845084)

- VP Engineering
  - Director of Engineering - Product
    - [Search Core](search/index.md#search-core) (future split of current Search team)
    - [Search Growth](search/index.md#search-growth) (future split of current Search team)
    - [Campaigns](campaigns/index.md)
    - [Code Intelligence](code-intelligence/index.md)
    - [Code Insights](web/index.md#code-insights) (future team, currently owned by Web team)
    - [Extensions and Integrations](web/index.md#extensions-and-integrations) (future team, currently owned by Web team)
  - Director of Engineering - Infrastructure
    - [Cloud](cloud/index.md)
    - [Deployment and Operations Platform](distribution/index.md#deployment-and-operations-platform)
    - [Developer Platform](distribution/index.md#developer-platform)
    - [Security](security/index.md)
    - [Backend Platform](backend-infrastructure/index.md) (future team, currently owned by Cloud team)
    - [Web Platform](web/index.md#web-infrastructure) (future team, currently owned by Web team)

Every team here is a "full stack" team that has all the skills and roles necessary to achieve the team's mission.

Examples:

- Product teams own their own on-call and operations, using infrastructure provided by Deployment and Operations Platform team.
  - Is search broken/down? That is the search team's problem to solve.
  - Is our whole Cloud deployment broken/down? That is the Cloud team's problem to solve.
  - Is product team X lacking the tools they need to appropriately monitor their services? That is the Deployment and Operations Platform team's problem to solve.
- Product teams own the security of their parts of the application. They should engage and consult with security experts on our team to get ahead of security concerns.
- To a first approximation, each team, including infrastructure teams, need product managers. Each team has customers (for infrastructure teams, customers are internal).
