
# 3.9 Release retrospective

Retrospective meeting: 25th of October 2019, 09:00 PT / 18:00 CEST

## Previous Retro Action Items

- [X] @loic Add to release captain docs:
  - [x] Release captain should aggressively revert features that may cause delays.
  - [x] Default to tagging regressions as release blockers.
  - [x] Add high-level details like customer impact on issues so Christina can help determine whether or not it’s a release blocker.
- [x] @thorsten create an issue with the debugging information that would have been helpful
- [x] Individual teams: look at the release testing grid, and decide whether further automated testing work should be prioritized & tracked in 3.9.
- [x] @nick @christina: flip the default for RFCs to make them public by default.
- [x] @loic update release captain docs so that release testing items are updated earlier in the milestone

## Action Items

- [ ] @Nick figure out how to prioritize work on flakey alerts
- [ ] @Nick to document the use of RFCs / Tracking issues / Roadmap and their relationship. He’ll solicit feedback on it and proceed from there.
- [ ] @Beyang to change the release captain template to include others than original feature authors in testing changelog items.
- [ ] @Tomás to schedule recurrent Core Services and Automation team retrospectives [!!!](https://media2.giphy.com/media/BzyTuYCmvSORqs1ABM/giphy.gif)
- [ ] @Loic and Tomás do discuss best approaches to team retro organization and document the result !!!
- [ ] @Keegan to continue to shepherd the flaky CI discussion async.

## Discussion Items

Keegan:

- 13 (Nick +5, Eric +2, Hadrian +2, Chris +2, Tomás +2) E2E is still flakey, but has improved.
  - Proposal: Move E2E to master only. Less chance of flakiness + our CI on PRs will be _much_ faster (no need to build server image and run e2e tests).

Loic:

- 34 Fixes to literal search after branch cut. (Tomás +8, Farhan +5, Loic +3, Uwe +3, Rijnard +2, Felix +1, Hadrian + 4, Beyang +2, Stephen +4)
  - I feel like more fixes were cherry-picked onto the release branch than usual this time around.
  - Were these all necessary? Were they all critical enough that they warranted being done on prior to the main release, and could not wait for a patch release?
  - Scrambling to get fixes into the release branch in release week is stressful, and goes against our goal of having calm releases.

Tomás:

- 28 (Chris +2, Eric +3, Thorsten +2, Farhan +2, Loic +4, Rijnard +2, Tomás +2, Hadrian +1, Stephen +6, Beyang +4) Are these engineering wide retrospectives still the best format for learning? Would team specific retrospectives be a better use of our time?
  - Stephen
    - Create team retros [https://media2.giphy.com/media/BzyTuYCmvSORqs1ABM/giphy.gif](https://media2.giphy.com/media/BzyTuYCmvSORqs1ABM/giphy.gif)
  - Nick
    - I am in favor of team based retrospectives. Distribution team did a retrospective as part of their weekly meeting and I thought that was valuable (and didn’t necessarily need to involve the whole eng team). I do want to have some verification that they happen (e.g. in the form of retrospective notes that are visible to the company) because I think they are important. Whether teams choose to do them synchronously or async is an implementation detail up to them.
- 2 (Felix +2) I do think there are certain topics that we should discuss as a broader team (e2e tests are a good example). What is the best format for that? [I was happy with the async/written retrospective process for backend languages](https://sourcegraph.slack.com/archives/C0EPTDE9L/p1571891362078000). Maybe we can adopt a format like that? I am curious if anyone else would be interested in a better tool for conversations like this. For example, I think something like an internal only reddit-like service might be interesting for threaded conversations (i.e. I want threaded conversations only accessible to Sourcegraph team). Does anyone have recommendations for products like this?

Chris:

- 45 (Nick +5, Eric +5, Felix +5, Loic +3, Uwe +3, , Farhan +2, Rijnard +3, Hadrian +3, Thorsten +3, Tomás +4, Chris +5, Beyang +4) Tasks split across: roadmap, RFCs, team syncs, GitHub issues - what’s the preferred role of each?
  - Not sure what to put where
  - When we had tracking issues, it was super clear, that’s where we would put what we’re working on
  - Overhead to maintain separate entities that reflect the current status of a project
  - Stephen’s view:
    - Roadmap: extremely high level problems (Stephen likes because you can see what a given team’s priorities are), no information about how we’re planning to solve those
    - RFCs: more optional (than the roadmap?), they’re a communication tool for controversial topics and a medium to get feedback
    - GitHub issues: answer how we’re actually going to solve these
  - Tomas prefers GitHub issues
    - Felix: it’s bad to comment because it’s a linear conversation
  - Nick’s thoughts:
    - Aligns with what Thorsten and Stephen said, align on high level items and agreement from everyone, roadmap is the most effective tool for that
    - Big things should go on the roadmap
    - Bug reports are an implementation detail
    - RFCs are the best medium to achieve high level alignment, commenting on Gdocs is better than GH issues (update inline, artifact represents the sum total of what you did, which is better than a gigantic thread on GH even if you update the description because the context below it doesn’t make sense)
    - From an engineering management perspective, I can’t keep up to date on GH issues but can on Roadmap and RFCs
    - GH issues are an implementation detail
    - It’s ok to link to a GitHub issues instead of an RFC if it’s a well-described issue
    - Roadmap is missing time bounds, are these things going to ship in this release or not? Tracking issues accomplish that, emojis on the roadmap can solve that
    - Roadmap
      - Says which RFCs should exist, then you write the RFCs, and out of those GitHub issues might or might not come
      - Not referenced very often (Farhan)
      - Hard to understand what people are talking about when they say “check the roadmap” -- roadmap on docsite has already been cleaned up, not an issue? Updates cascade
    - RFCs
      - Communicate projects
      - Spell out role of GitHub issues that branch out from it?
      - RFCs can take the place of what we used to do with tracking issues
      - Problem: many types of RFCs: ???, technical, team meetings
      - Barrier to entry is very low, introducing classifications would increase barrier to entry
    - GitHub issues:
      - Beyang strongly prefers this to be the source of truth for what people are working on (because the roadmap lacks granularity, GitHub issues supports commenting that’s user-friendly, images, code blocks), RFCs …, less opinion on the roadmap but maybe only update it once a release
