# 2019-Q4 OKRs

1. **CEO: Net new ARR**
   1. **Sales (Closing Deals): Reach [\$N](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1clukaACTCjPLnmhEttJXcOwadxHEGYK24Znn0HUQGB0/edit#bookmark=kix.n8t17z6iyawc) net new ARR in Q4 by fully onboarding 2 new AEs who will close 4 Tier 1 deals (>=\$100K ARR) and 11 non-Tier 1 deals.**
      1. Sales (Closing Deals) KR: Get 70% of companies on a free trial to convert to paid customers.
   1. **Sales (Deal Optimization): Scale our sales pipeline to 50+ deals per AE, of which 60% of deals are engaged and actively evaluating Sourcegraph.**
      1. Sales (Deal Optimization) KR: Maintain company-wide HubSpot consistency to generate actionable reporting from data logged.
   1. **Business (Marketing): Build the lead generation engine that will support 4-5x ARR growth in 2020.**
      1. Business (Marketing) KR: Begin tracking and measuring each stage of the funnel and conversion across them.
      1. Business (Marketing) KR: Grow MQLs delivered to sales weekly by 3x.
      1. Business (Marketing) KR: Hire two additional full-time marketing or DevRel teammates (including one Online Marketer).
   1. **Business (Customer Success): Build a Customer Success playbook that will achieve 16% net negative dollar retention in 2019-Q4 ([note](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1clukaACTCjPLnmhEttJXcOwadxHEGYK24Znn0HUQGB0/edit#bookmark=id.555yhh8djvze)) and to put us on a path to continue to achieve net negative dollar retention through 2020.**
      1. Business (Customer Success) KR: Test a set of new success efforts (e.g., live brown bag lunches, monthly webinars, increased communication of value delivered) to determine highest ROI efforts.
      1. Business (Customer Success) KR: Start these efforts with all Tier 1 customers.
      1. Business (Customer Success) KR: Hire or assign an owner to ensure they continue to happen.
   1. **Product: Increase engagement with the product.**
      1. Product KR: Increase SWAUs by 25% => [Looker SWAU dashboard](https://sourcegraph.looker.com/looks/478)
      1. Product KR: Identify the top 3 reasons potential customers do not sign => Tracking in [Looker dashboard](https://sourcegraph.looker.com/dashboards/122), not getting much feedback from sales pipeline.
      1. Product KR: Open source projects in GitLab use Sourcegraph.com for on-by-default code intelligence (without the browser extension) => Shipped for all open source projects, requires user opt-in. See [announcement blogpost](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/gitlab-integrates-sourcegraph-code-navigation-and-code-intelligence).
   1. **VP Eng: Sourcegraph has world class reliability.**
      1. VP Eng KR: 100% of monthly releases ship on time.
      1. VP Eng KR: No tier 1 or 2 customers are blocked from upgrading to a monthly release once it ships.
      1. **Distribution: Automate time-consuming ops and support tasks.**
         1. Distribution KR: Major/minor and patch releases take 1 hour (including general QA but excluding customer-specific testing). => QA has been fully automated and releases are possible in under an hour. In practice, a 1 hour release has not yet happened due to QA finding release blockers. [RFC 86](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mbnLHBhEPT2c8ttoxQaQRstivW0JIbKHKtjg-ZRr5WM/edit) addresses how to amortize QA over PRs to eliminate release blockers so that releases can take under an hour.
         1. Distribution KR: All customer specific testing is complete within 2 business days of tagging any release. => Now relying primarily on automated QA for most customer testing, excluding a few which did not happen in 2 business days but did take <24h to complete at a later date.
      1. **Distribution: Streamline technical blockers for tier-1 customers advancing toward general availability.**
         1. Distribution KR: Address all rollout-blocking issues within 1 iteration of reporting. => Unclear to me @slimsag what issues fall under this KR, this has been modified from what I saw we agreed upon ("1 iteration of reporting" vs. by Q1?)
         1. Distribution KR: Scale search and authz to [C1](https://app.hubspot.com/contacts/2762526/company/407948923/) and [C2](https://app.hubspot.com/contacts/2762526/company/1712889883/) requirements by EOY. => Zoekt is now horizonally scalable and experimental paginated search is available for heavy scripting use cases. Sufficient for C1, unclear for C2 yet.
1. **CEO: Standard developer platform**
   1. **VP Eng: Build a world class engineering team.**
      1. VP Eng KR: Grow team to plan (+1 code intel, +1 distribution, +1 web app, 1+ core services, +1 manager distribution).
      1. VP Eng KR: Handoff of web and core services management responsibilities deemed a success by all involved parties.
      1. VP Eng KR: Track career goals for every engineer.
   1. **VP Eng: Deliver the product roadmap.**
      1. **Distribution: Improve site admin experience.**
         1. Distribution KR: Provide additional monitoring and debugging tools to site admins ([#4260](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/4260), [#5547](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/5547), [#5706](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/5706), [#5531](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/5531), [#5369](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/5369), [#5769](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/5769)) => Some progress made, but generally not completed.
      1. **Code intel: Deliver LSIF-based code intelligence.**
         1. Code intel KR: Support LSIF-based code intel in targeted languages (Go, JavaScript/TypeScript, Python, Java, C#, and C/C++).
         1. Code intel KR: LSIF-powered code intel on Sourcegraph.com for at least 1 public project per language.
      1. **Automation: Release automation campaign tracking and creation.**
         1. Automation KR: Implement [RFC 42](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1j85PoL6NOzLX_PHFzBQogZcnttYK0BXj9XnrxF3DYmA/edit).
      1. **Web: Make the power of search accessible to more users.**
         1. Web KR: Eliminate errors caused by malformed search queries (e.g. literal search, autocomplete). => Literal search and autocomplete shipped.
         1. Web KR: Increase usage of filters (e.g. filter UI). => Improved filter UI (omni mode, filter highlighting in interactive mode) are expected to ship in Q4.
      1. **Web: Data driven decisions for search improvements.**
         1. Web KR: Measure number/type of filters used for each search on customer instances.
         1. Web KR: Measure the number of searches that result in an error. => We expect to reach approved status on [RFC 79](https://docs.google.com/document/d/)
      1. **Core services: Sourcegraph search scales to our largest customers.**
         1. Core services KR: Symbol and text search returns in under 2s on instances with 80k repositories and configured ACLs for 1k active users. => Added horizontal scaling to zoekt and made Bitbucket ACLs APIs more efficient but not going to measure KR as written because customer E is no longer a priority.
         1. Core services KR: Sourcegraph can index any code independent of code host and version control system. => Achieved with src-expose but doesn’t support history and no customers using it yet.
         1. Core services KR: Admins know what percentage of repositories are available for search and when the instance will reach 100% availability. => This was de-prioritized in favor of automation.
   1. **Product: Build a better product.**
      1. Product KR: Hire a product manager and UX designer. => Actively seeking [UX designer](https://github.com/sourcegraph/careers/blob/master/job-descriptions/ux-designer.md) and [Product manager](https://github.com/sourcegraph/careers/blob/master/job-descriptions/product-manager.md).
      1. Product KR: Sourcegraph users provide feedback as they use the product over time. => Not started, likely to miss.
      1. Product KR: Publish updated product roadmap for 2020 with RFCs and validated projects for Q1 2020. => WIP.
1. **CEO: Aspirational team.**
   1. CEO KR: Improve effectiveness of internal communications.
   1. CEO KR: Publicize our internal progress more.
   1. CEO KR: Make information default public.
   1. **CEO: Become handbook-first so we can scale and communicate more effectively.**
      1. CEO KR: Rebuild the handbook and keep it up-to-date.
   1. **Business (Finance): Build the operating model that will guide hiring through H1 2020.**
      1. Business (Finance) KR: Build both a comprehensive top-line + cost model with three scenarios that is approved by the Sourcegraph Board of Directors.
      1. Business (Finance) KR: Set hiring targets and budgets for each department for Q1 and Q2 2020 to empower executive team to make decisions in the context of our financial position.
   1. **VP Eng: Develop and evangelize a world class engineering culture.**
      1. VP Eng KR: All questions about our engineering team and culture (e.g. from candidates or current teammates) can be answered by sending a link to our developer docs.
      1. VP Eng KR: 3 blog posts (not release announcements) authored by members of the eng team.
   1. **Sales: Develop a Sales hiring plan and onboarding plan to be used for scaling the team in 2020, the latter with an +80 or higher NPS score from current AEs by EOQ.**
