# 2020-Q1 OKRs

## CEO

1. **CEO: Grow ARR consistently**
   1. [$N][N] net new ARR
   1. Sales leadership owns revenue targets and hiring plan
   1. Sales, engineering, and product have a working process for prioritization and delivery
1. **CEO: Aspirational, efficient all-remote team**
   1. Roles and responsibilities are documented and maintained in handbook
   1. Team members rely on the handbook for cross-functional info and processes
   1. The handbook is fast to browse and search

## Sales and marketing (WIP)

> NOTE: Sales and Marketing OKRs are being finalized and will be updated soon.

1. **Sales (Closing Deals): Achieve [$N][N] net new ARR.**
   1. Have each AE close 3 Tier 1 deals (>=$100K ARR) and 10 non-Tier 1 deals, 2 of which are from their own outbound outreach efforts.
   1. Get 70% of companies on a free trial to convert to paid customers.
1. **Sales (Pipeline Optimization): Scale our sales pipeline to 50+ deals per AE, of which 60% of deals are engaged and actively evaluating Sourcegraph.**
   1. Round robin new instances across team to collectively achieve a 15%+ response rate from Prospects who set up a new Sourcegraph instance.

1. **Business: Build a Customer Success organization that supports and helps us exceed our ARR goals.**
   1. Generate at least [$M][M] in net new ARR from existing accounts.
   1. Hire a Head of Customer Success who can own this function.
   1. Reach [monthly NPS](https://sourcegraph.looker.com/dashboards/128) of 60 at all Tier 1 customers.
1. **VP Marketing: Deliver sufficient MQLs to sales to reach [$N][N] net new ARR goal.**
   1. Deliver [P][P] MQLs to sales.
   1. Start developer ad programs with 3 leading dev media sites and SEM programs with an outside agency.
   1. Execute the initial version of three major marketing functions: a sponsored booth (at GitLab Commit), a webinar, and an eBook.
1. **VP Marketing: Launch our new category by February.**
   1. Conduct research and deliver initial decision presentation to the executive team by end of January
   1. Develop at least 12 content pieces explaining the new category by March
   1. Have the press publish at least 3 articles explaining the category by end of March
1. **VP Marketing: Demonstrate leadership in our category.**
   1. Agree on a plan for what we do with sourcegraph.com going forward.
   1. Choose a metric with which we can compare ourselves to other options
   1. Have at least one press asset document our statistic by March 2020

## Product

1. **Product: Create a customer driven product process**
   1. All product engineering work has a delivery plan (where "delivery plan" links to a new handbook page that defines it, based on [RFC 97](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cZ7JIVuRWrF2MxwDdH36SC7zOyT2qJf9AMUd9Wc9_aY/edit#heading=h.dkow31it1qt1)).
   1. Handbook describes the lifecycle of a feature and who is responsible for each part of the lifecycle.
   1. Handbook describes product planning processes and API between product and engineering.
1. **Product: Build the product and design team to support engineering and ARR growth**
   1. Hire +1 UX Designer.
   1. Hire +1 Product Manager.

## Engineering

### VP Eng

1. **Build a world class engineering team.**
   1. Grow team to plan (+1 code intel, +2 distribution, +2 web, +1 core services).
   1. Transition an existing teammate to be (or hire) an Engineering Manager of the distribution team.
   1. Document how we do performance reviews and determine compensation for teammates in engineering roles.
1. **Identify long term owners for new engineering functions**
   1. Hire someone to own security now and who has the potential to lead a team in the future.
   1. Hire someone to own internal developer productivity now and who has the potential to lead a team in the future.
1. **Create a data driven planning process.**
   1. Each team commits to a written work plan for each release cycle.
   1. Each team completes >80% of the work that they committed to at the beginning of the release cycle each iteration.

### Distribution

1. **Resolve issues for major customers**
   1. Ensure that no technical issue blocks a deal for any [tier 1 or tier 2 customer](https://sourcegraph.looker.com/dashboards/132).
1. **Improve developer productivity**
   1. Automate away release captain role and adopt continuous releases (no human in loop required by default).
1. **Improve installation and site admin onboarding process**
   1. Track time to important admin setup milestones (i.e. instance started, admin account created, >1 repositories added) are tracked in [pings](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/pings).
   1. Make at least one improvement that decreases overall time from instance installation to completion of site admin setup.

### Code intelligence

1. **LSIF is adopted by customers**
   1. At least three customers have > 50% of code intel queries powered by LSIF (excluding fallback references)
   1. At least one customer has > 90% of code intel queries powered by LSIF (excluding fallback references)
   1. 99th percentile end-to-end latency of hover tooltips, go to definition, and find references is tracked in [pings](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/pings) and under 2 seconds. These metrics are inclusive of all of these user actions, regardless of how code intelligence is implemented.

1. **Increase user confidence in code intelligence provided by LSIF**
   1. Code intelligence UI (tooltips, references panel, etc.) indicates whether or not results are precise
   1. Fall back to fuzzy if the file has been modified since the last LSIF upload
   1. Make use of LSIF data when the current line is not part of the diff since the last LSIF upload

### Web

1. **Make users aware of advanced search features**
   1. Interactive search is available to all users by default (not feature-flagged)
   1. Smart search is available to all users by default (not feature-flagged)
1. **Enable data driven product development**
   1. Search daily, weekly, monthly active users are tracked in [pings](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/pings).
   1. Search filter usage is tracked in [pings](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/pings).
   1. Search mode usage is tracked in [pings](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/pings).

### Core services

1. **Increase adoption of search at customers**
   1. Write at least 2 pieces of technical documentation (docs, walkthroughs, blog posts) about search functionality.
   1. 99th percentile of time to first result is below 3s across all search types.
   1. At least four customers are running structural searches and metrics to validate this KR are tracked in [pings](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/pings).
   1. At least four customers are running AND/OR/NOT queries and metrics to validate this KR are tracked in [pings](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/pings).

### Automation

_This OKR is a joint effort between [web](#web) and [core services](#core-servies)._

1. **Automation is polished and adopted by customers**
   1. Document Automation and write a blog post about it.
   1. Automation is enabled by default and not behind a feature flag.
   1. Run 3 user tests with Sourcegraph colleagues, collect issues and fix them.
   1. 3 different customers have together run at least 10 campaigns.

## Operations

1. **Business: Make Sourcegraph a lean organization that uses data and budgets to guide decision making.**
   1. Provide a board-approved budget (including spending and hiring plans) to each department head.
   1. Provide dashboards to each department head that are used on at least a weekly basis (prioritizing [sales](https://sourcegraph.looker.com/dashboards/123), [marketing](https://sourcegraph.looker.com/dashboards/118), and customer success).

1. **Business: Build a rewarding, challenging, and inclusive people-ops operating system.**
   1. Build the HR and legal policies that will enable an all-remote team to operate smoothly (e.g., ability to contract or be employed in all necessary locations, smooth national and cross-border payments, fair benefits for all teammates, a professional development story for each function, and a process for everyone to raise questions or concerns and to get answers).
   1. Write the handbook documentation and implement recruiting and onboarding practices, teammate trainings, and more, to help ensure candidates and teammates from every community feel included.

[N]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yndPaKSiB4Jq6J6cwGzcIUBSIupPOySHUHsOF2ipqFo/edit#bookmark=kix.n8t17z6iyawc
[M]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yndPaKSiB4Jq6J6cwGzcIUBSIupPOySHUHsOF2ipqFo/edit#bookmark=id.vwn1af52n0ns
[P]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yndPaKSiB4Jq6J6cwGzcIUBSIupPOySHUHsOF2ipqFo/edit#bookmark=id.xdw01fsaehfy
